<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE TEI.2 SYSTEM "http://www.gutenberg.org/tei/marcello/0.4/dtd/pgtei.dtd" [

<!ENTITY u5  "http://www.tei-c.org/Lite/">

]>

<TEI.2 lang="en">
<teiHeader>
  <fileDesc>
    <titleStmt>
      <title>The Finished Mystery</title>
      <title type="sub">Studies in the Scriptures, Volume VII</title>
      <author><name reg="Russell, Charles Taze">Charles Taze Russell</name></author>
      <respStmt><resp>Edited by</resp> <name>C. J. Woodworth</name></respStmt>
      <respStmt><resp>Edited by</resp> <name>George H. Fisher</name></respStmt>
    </titleStmt>
    <editionStmt>
      <edition n="1">Edition 1</edition>
    </editionStmt>
    <publicationStmt>
      <publisher>Project Gutenberg</publisher>
      <date>June 17, 2014</date>
      <idno type="etext-no">46016</idno>
      <availability>
        <p>This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and
        with almost no restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it
        away or re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg
        License online at www.gutenberg.org/license</p>
      </availability>
    </publicationStmt>
    <sourceDesc>
      <bibl>
        Created electronically.
      </bibl>
    </sourceDesc>
  </fileDesc>
  <encodingDesc>
  </encodingDesc>
  <profileDesc>
    <langUsage>
      <language id="en"></language>
      <language id="el"></language>
      <language id="he"></language>
      <language id="la"></language>
    </langUsage>
  </profileDesc>
  <revisionDesc>
    <change>
      <date value="2014-06-17">June 17, 2014</date>
      <respStmt>
        <name>
            Produced by Heiko Evermann, David King, and the Online
            Distributed Proofreading Team at &lt;http://www.pgdp.net/&gt;.
            (This book was produced from scanned images of public domain
            material from the Google Print project.)
        </name>
      </respStmt>
      <item>Project Gutenberg TEI edition 1</item>
    </change>
  </revisionDesc>
</teiHeader>

<pgExtensions>
  <pgStyleSheet>
    .boxed           { x-class: boxed }
    .shaded          { x-class: shaded }
    .rules           { x-class: rules; rules: all }
    .indent          { margin-left: 2 }
    .bold            { font-weight: bold }
    .italic          { font-style: italic }
    .smallcaps       { font-variant: small-caps }
    .sans            { font-family: sans-serif }
  </pgStyleSheet>

  <pgCharMap formats="txt.iso-8859-1">
    <char id="U0x2014">
      <charName>mdash</charName>
      <desc>EM DASH</desc>
      <mapping>--</mapping>
    </char>
    <char id="U0x2003">
      <charName>emsp</charName>
      <desc>EM SPACE</desc>
      <mapping>  </mapping>
    </char>
    <char id="U0x2026">
      <charName>hellip</charName>
      <desc>HORIZONTAL ELLIPSIS</desc>
      <mapping>...</mapping>
    </char>
  </pgCharMap>
</pgExtensions>

<text lang="en">
  <front>
    <div>
      <divGen type="pgheader" />
    </div>
    <div>
      <divGen type="encodingDesc" />
    </div>

    <div rend="page-break-before: always">
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">Studies in the Scriptures</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">Volume VII</p>
      <p rend="font-size: xx-large; text-align: center">The Finished Mystery</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center"><q>The Winepress of God's Wrath</q> and the Fall of Babylon.</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">By</p>
      <p rend="font-size: x-large; text-align: center">Charles Taze Russell</p>
      <p rend="font-size: small; text-align: center">(Published Posthumously)</p>
      <p rend="font-size: small; text-align: center">Edited by</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">C. J. Woodworth and George H. Fisher</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">850,000 Edition</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center"><q>And the angel which I saw stand
upon the sea and upon the earth lifted up his hand to Heaven, and swore by Him that liveth
forever and ever, who created Heaven and the things that therein are, and the earth, and
the things that therein are, and the sea,
and the things which are therein, that the
time should be no longer delayed; but in the
days of the voice of the seventh angel, when
he shall begin to sound, the Mystery of God
should be finished, as He hath declared to
His servants the Prophets.</q>&mdash;Rev. 10:5-7.
<q>At the end it shall speak and not lie.</q>&mdash;Hab.
2:3.</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">Copyright 1917</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">Peoples Pulpit Association</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">Brooklyn, N. Y., U. S. A.</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">International Bible Students Association</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">Brooklyn, London, Melbourne, Barmen</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">1918</p>
    </div>
    <div rend="page-break-before: always">
      <head>Contents</head>
      <divGen type="toc" />
    </div>

  </front>
<body>

<div>
<p rend='text-align: center'>
<figure url='images/cover.jpg' rend='width: 40%'>
<figDesc>Cover Art</figDesc>
</figure>
</p>
<p>
[Transcriber's Note: The above cover image was produced by the submitter at
Distributed Proofreaders, and is being placed into the public domain.]
</p>
</div>

<pb n='002'/><anchor id='Pg002'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>

<p>
TO THE KING OF KINGS AND LORD OF LORDS
THIS WORK IS DEDICATED
</p>

<p>
In the Interest of<lb/>
HIS CONSECRATED SAINTS<lb/>
Waiting for the Adoption<lb/>
And of<lb/>
<q><hi rend='smallcaps'>All That in Every Place Call Upon the Lord</hi></q><lb/>
<q>THE HOUSEHOLD OF FAITH</q><lb/>
And Of<lb/>
The Groaning Creation; Travailing And<lb/>
Waiting for the Manifestation of<lb/>
THE SONS OF GOD
</p>

<p>
POSTHUMOUS WORK OF PASTOR RUSSELL
</p>

<p>
His Last Legacy to the Dear Israel of God (Matt 20:9)
</p>

<p>
<q>To make all see what is the fellowship of the mystery which from
the beginning of the world hath been hid in God.</q> <q>Wherein
He hath abounded toward us in all wisdom and prudence,
having made known unto us the mystery
of His will, according to His good pleasure
which He hath purposed in Himself;
that in the dispensation of the
fulness of the times He might
gather together in one
all things, under
Christ.</q>
</p>

<p>
Eph. 3:4, 5, 9; 1:8-10
</p>

</div>

<pb n='003'/><anchor id='Pg003'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Publisher's Preface</head>

<p>
Since the days of the Apostles, Christian people have
been looking for the coming of our Lord Jesus in great
power and glory; for He said that He would come
again and receive His Church unto Himself. He further
pointed out that for some time prior to the completion of
the Church He would be present, gathering out from Babylon
and from the world the truly consecrated, and that during
His presence <q>the Mystery of God</q> would be finished.
</p>

<p>
Through St. John the Lord Jesus revealed the fact that
the Church would be developed during seven distinct
periods, or epochs; and that for each of these epochs He
would have a special angel, or messenger, to serve the
other members of the Body. It follows, then, that the messenger
to the last, or Laodicean, epoch would declare the
Presence of the Lord and the time of the Harvest of the
Gospel Age. The great Master laid special emphasis on
the importance of the messenger to the seventh, or Laodicean,
period of the Church, saying that such an one would
be <q>a faithful and wise servant, whom his Lord would
make ruler over all His Household, to give them meat in
due season.</q>
</p>

<p>
Those consecrated Christians who have read and fully
appreciated the Truth as contained in the preceding six
volumes of STUDIES IN THE SCRIPTURES readily see
and agree that Charles Taze Russell was the messenger of
the Church of Laodicea. In the mind of every one who believes
the Bible the evidence set forth in this volume will
establish that fact beyond the question of a doubt.
</p>

<p>
In the light of Divine Prophecy, now being daily fulfilled
and made clear to <q>the watchers,</q> the following from the
pen of Pastor Russell is further proof that he was sent
of God to this generation. Long years before the beginning
of the trouble now upon the nations he wrote:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>The four exhibitions of the Lord, given to Elijah,
represent, we believe, four manifestations in which the
Lord is about to reveal Himself to mankind, the first
three of which will prepare men for the final one, in
which will come the desired blessing to all the families
of the earth. These are:</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>(1) <hi rend='italic'>The mighty winds</hi> rending the very rocks. Blowing
winds seem to be used in Scripture for wars. The
wars, whose dark clouds have threatened the civilized
world so ominously for the past thirty years, have been
miraculously hindered to give opportunity for <q>sealing</q>
<pb n='004'/><anchor id='Pg004'/>
the Lord's consecrated people in their foreheads (intellectually)
with the Present Truth. We are therefore to
expect that when these winds of war shall be let loose,
it will mean a cataclysm of warfare which shall divide
kingdoms (mountains)&mdash;prefigured by the mighty wind
shown to Elijah (1 Kings 19:11), which rent the rocks.
But God's Kingdom will not follow the epoch of war; the
world will not thus be made ready for the Reign of Immanuel.
No; a further lesson will be needed and will be
given. It is represented in</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>(2) An <hi rend='italic'>earthquake</hi>. Throughout the Scriptures an
earthquake seems always to represent revolution; and it
is not unreasonable to expect that an era of general warfare
would so arouse the lower classes of Europe and so
discontent them with their lot (and especially with the
conditions which would follow such a war) that revolution
would be the next thing in order. (Rev. 16:18.) But,
severe though those revolutionary experiences will be
to the world, they are not sufficient to prepare men to
hear the voice of God. It will require</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>(3) The <hi rend='italic'>fire from heaven</hi>&mdash;an epoch of Divine judgments
and chastisements upon a maddened but unconverted
world, wild in anarchy, as other Scriptures show
us. The results of their wars, revolutions and anarchy,
in the failure of their schemes, will have a humbling
effect, and will prepare mankind for God's revelation
of Himself in</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>(4) The <hi rend='italic'>still small voice</hi>. Yes; He who spoke to
the winds and the waves of the Sea of Galilee will, in
due time, <q>speak peace to the peoples.</q> He will speak
with authority, commanding the observance of His long
neglected Law of Love. <q>And whosoever will not hear
that Prophet shall be cut off from among His people.</q>
(Acts 3:23.)</q>&mdash;THE WATCH TOWER, July 1, 1898, p. 308.
</p>

<p>
<q>Looking back to the prophetic testimony respecting
the <hi rend='italic'>Times of the Gentiles</hi>, we perceive that our Lord's
words, <q>Jerusalem shall be trodden down of the Gentiles
until the Times of the Gentiles be filled full,</q> give
the intimation that the determined times, or years,
in which the empire of earth would be in the hands
of Gentile governments was a fixed one from the
Divine standpoint. And if, as we believe the Scriptures
to teach, Gentile domination was provided for up to
October, 1914, it would seem but a reasonable interpretation
that Divine power would not be exercised to their
dethronement until <emph>after</emph> the time allotted for their reign
had ended&mdash;October, 1914.</q>&mdash;THE WATCH TOWER, July
1, 1904. p. 198.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
In 1879 Charles Taze Russell began the publication of
THE WATCH TOWER, of which he was the sole editor
as long as he remained on earth. THE WATCH TOWER
was, and is, the first and only journal declaring the <emph>presence</emph>
of the Lord Jesus. Pastor Russell being the messenger
to the Laodicean Church, and occupying the position
of the Lord's special servant to give the Household of
Faith meat in due season, it was to be expected that he
would bring forth from the Lord's great <q>Storehouse</q> the
needed spiritual food for the Church, in harmony with
<pb n='005'/><anchor id='Pg005'/>
God's will. By the Lord's grace he wrote the six volumes
of STUDIES IN THE SCRIPTURES, which writings, aside
from the Bible, have gladdened more hearts and thrilled
Christians with greater hope and joyful expectation than
have any other writings extant. These books have been
properly designated <q>Keys to the Divine Plan of the
Ages.</q> These <q>keys</q> have been placed in the hands of
thousands of Christian people throughout the world, and
have enabled them to unlock the Lord's Treasure-house,
the Bible, and there to see some of the <q>treasures of wisdom</q>
and knowledge of God! Some have been able to use
these <q>keys</q> more effectually than have others. <q>God hath
set the members in the Body as it hath pleased Him.</q>
</p>

<p>
Time and again Pastor Russell said that the Seventh
Volume of STUDIES IN THE SCRIPTURES would be
written; and it was expected that he would write it. The
Scriptures show that the Seventh Volume must be published.
Pastor Russell passed from the earth, and the
Seventh Volume remained unpublished. In his last moments
he said, <q>Some one else can write the Seventh
Volume.</q> For any one to arrogate to himself the authority
to write and publish the Seventh Volume would, we believe,
seem presumptuous before the Lord. Whom, then,
would the Lord have to write it?
</p>

<p>
Pastor Russell was a man of unusual modesty. Great
men usually are modest. The examination of the contents
of this book will disclose the fact that it deals with Revelation
and Ezekiel; that the Lord long ago caused to be
recorded therein, in symbolic language, a history of the
Church, particularly the closing earthly experiences thereof;
that therein He set forth that He would uncover the
frauds, deceptions and blasphemous teachings and practices
of the church nominal&mdash;both Catholic and Protestant;
that in the last days He would then make bare the unholy
alliance between the unrighteous ecclesiastical systems
and the corrupt political elements of the earth, which religious
systems have prospered and grown fat in the name
of Christ; that the Lord pronounces His indignation and
wrath against all such Babylonish systems and marks their
utter destruction in a Time of Trouble such as the world
has never known and will never again know; and that the
earthly creature made prominent therein above all others
is the messenger of the Laodicean Church&mdash;<q>that wise and
faithful servant</q> of the Lord&mdash;CHARLES TAZE RUSSELL.
In view of the facts stated, is it at all surprising that the
Lord spared him the publication of the Seventh Volume?
</p>

<p>
But the fact is, <emph>he did write it</emph>. This book may properly
be said to be a posthumous publication of Pastor Russell.
<pb n='006'/><anchor id='Pg006'/>
Why? Because to him the Lord gave the <q>key</q>; to him
was given the privilege of making clear to the Church in
its last years the <q>Mystery of God</q>; to him was granted
the privilege of hearing from the hands of the Lord to the
Household of Faith <q>meat in due season</q> for the special
development and sustenance of God's dear little ones. This
service he has faithfully performed. This book is chiefly
a compilation of things which he wrote and which have
been brought together in harmonious style by properly applying
the symbols which he explained to the Church.
</p>

<p>
By his last Will and Testament Pastor Russell designated
George H. Fisher, of Scranton, Pa., as one whom he
would approve as a member of the Editorial Staff of THE
WATCH TOWER&mdash;the most important journal published
on earth. For many years Brother Fisher has been consecrated
to the Lord, a careful student of the Bible in the
light of the Message brought from the Lord by the messenger
to the Laodicean Church; and for some time he has
made a careful and prayerful study of the Book of Ezekiel.
</p>

<p>
When Pastor Russell was with us he gave direction that
the BIBLE STUDENTS MANUAL should be prepared by
Clayton J. Woodworth, also of Scranton, Pa. This Manual
was published by this Society, and has proven a great
blessing to the Household of Faith. The preparation of
that Manual required a critical examination of everything
Pastor Russell had written; and thus Brother Woodworth
was enabled to become more familiar, probably, than any
one else with the explanation of the Scriptures which had
been given by Brother Russell. In this manner the Lord
seemed to have qualified him for some special work. With
the <q>key</q> which Brother Russell, as the Lord's servant,
had placed in his hands, Brother Woodworth, by the Lord's
grace, has been enabled to bring together everything that
Brother Russell wrote on Revelation, and to explain and
harmonize the other parts of that book with the Divine
Plan; also, to treat similarly, the Song of Solomon.
</p>

<p>
It seemed pleasing to the Lord that Brothers C. J. Woodworth
and George H. Fisher should prepare the Seventh
Volume, under the direction of the WATCH TOWER
BIBLE AND TRACT SOCIETY. While both residing in
the same city, they have worked separate and apart from
each other, not even comparing notes. The reader will be
able to judge how fully the work of each harmonizes with
that of the other and with the Divine Plan, thus giving
further evidence of the Lord's direction in this matter.
</p>

<p>
Pastor Russell long ago said, in substance, that the
Seventh Volume would not be for the development of the
Church; that the preceding <emph>six</emph> volumes of STUDIES IN
<pb n='007'/><anchor id='Pg007'/>
THE SCRIPTURES contain the necessary spiritual food
for that purpose. Asked why, then, it would be written,
he replied, <q><hi rend='italic'>It will probably be given to the Church in a
time of direst need, for her comfort and encouragement</hi>.</q>
</p>

<p>
Who amongst the consecrated this side the veil does not
realize that the Church is now in that time of <q>dire need
of comfort and encouragement</q>? The hour of fiery trial
and great testings is upon God's people, and there is need
for their comfort and encouragement. The Lord has promised
<q>grace sufficient</q> and help for every time of need for
those who love Him and come confidently unto Him. We
believe that as the Lord's dear children throughout the
earth read the contents of this book and see how wonderfully
He has shielded them from the storms of human passion
and from the snares of the great Adversary; and that
when they see that the unrighteous, wicked systems of
Babylon are now crumbling under the mighty hand of God&mdash;which
bespeaks the early deliverance of the last members
of the Body from this vale of tears into the glorious
light and liberty of the saints&mdash;that then they will be
greatly comforted; that then they will take new courage
and <q>gird up the loins of their mind, be sober and hope to
the end for the grace that is to come unto them quickly;</q>
that with exceeding joy they will lift up their heads, because
the hour of deliverance is at hand! To all the truly
consecrated who read and appreciate this book we believe
that the words of the Master, <q>THE KINGDOM OF
HEAVEN IS AT HAND!</q> will sound in their ears like
clarion notes upon the clear morning air, giving courage
and strength to those who are growing weak in faith, and
more courage to the stronger ones. We believe that every
one who appreciates this volume will have a burning desire
to grasp his weapon and go forth to the smiting of the
Jordan, giving praise to the Lord for the privilege.
</p>

<p>
Some will murmur and find fault with this book; some
will grow angry, and some will join the persecutors. But,
we believe, every saint whose heart is filled with love for
God and for His people will rejoice and give praise to the
Lord for this further evidence of His blessed favor.
</p>

<p>
The publisher takes pleasure in presenting this, the
Seventh Volume, to the remaining members of the Church,
and to all who may read with profit to themselves and to
the glory of the Lord Jesus and our Father. As the Lord
has sent forth the other six volumes, His blessing has accompanied
each. That His blessing may be upon this
volume, to the comfort and encouragement of the dear
saints in the hour of direst need, is our prayer!
</p>

<p>
WATCH TOWER BIBLE &amp; TRACT SOCIETY.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='010'/><anchor id='Pg010'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Explanatory Note</head>

<p>
This posthumous work of Pastor Russell (arranged
for use as a textbook) is much condensed, including
the extracts from the Pastor's pen, all of which are
referred back to his works. The abbreviations used
are:
</p>

<lg>
<l>A, B, C, D, E, F. The six preceding volumes of <q>STUDIES
IN THE SCRIPTURES</q></l>
<l>(Citations to E in italic figures refer to old
editions, figures in ordinary type
to later editions.)</l>
<l>B. S. M. ... <q>THE BIBLE STUDENTS MONTHLY.</q></l>
<l>H. ... <q>What Say the Scriptures ABOUT HELL?</q></l>
<l>P-D. ... <q>PHOTO-DRAMA OF CREATION</q> Scenario.</l>
<l>T. ... <q>TABERNACLE SHADOWS.</q></l>
<l>S. ... <q>SPIRITISM</q> Pamphlet.</l>
<l>Z. ... <q>ZION'S WATCH TOWER,</q> followed by
year and page.</l>
</lg>

<p>
The citations to REVELATION and EZEKIEL
refer to the comments herein, as well as to the Bible
text.
</p>

<p>
Other abbreviations used are:
</p>

<lg>
<l>Barnes ... Barnes' <q>Revelation.</q></l>
<l>Brit. ... <q>Encyclopedia Britannica.</q></l>
<l>Buck ... Buck's <q>Theological Dictionary.</q></l>
<l>Coffin ... Coffin's <q>Story of Liberty.</q></l>
<l>Cook ... Cook's <q>Revelation;</q> a compendium of
the presentations of seventy-two leading
commentators on Revelation, in all
languages and all ages of the church.</l>
<l>Edgar ... Edgar's <q>Pyramid Passages.</q> Vol. II.</l>
<l>McC. ... McClintock and Strong's Encyclopedia.</l>
<l>Mosheim ... Mosheim's Ecclesiastical History.</l>
<l>S. B. D. ... Smith's Bible Dictionary.</l>
<l>Smith ... Smith's <q>Thoughts on Daniel and Revelation.</q></l>
<l>Weym ... Weymouth's New Testament In Modern
Speech.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='011'/><anchor id='Pg011'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Revelation Of [St.] John [The Divine]<note place='foot'>Words not In Sinaitic MS. are enclosed in brackets. The
Sinaitic MS. is the oldest known copy of the Scriptures, having
been written, it is believed. In A. D. 331. The <q>Authorized</q>
Version was made from MSS. none of which were older than
the tenth century.</note></head>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Revelation 1&mdash;The Message For This Day</head>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The Revelation of Jesus Christ.</hi>&mdash;John the Revelator and
the Prophet Habakkuk have foretold that the understanding
of this revelation, given in 96 A. D., is set for an
appointed time, the end of the age; and that, at this time,
now, when the predicted <q>Faithful and wise servant</q> would
be present with God's people, the vision would be made
plain.&mdash;Rev. 1:10; Matt. 24:45; Hab. 2:1-3; 1 Pet 1:13.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which God gave unto Him.</hi>&mdash;<q>The declaration that <q>the
Son can do nothing of Himself,</q> if it were not backed up
as it is by a score of other testimonies from the same
interested and inspired Teacher, is a contradiction to the
common thought of Trinitarians, that the Son is the
Father.</q>&mdash;Z. '99-45; John 5:20; 12:49; 17:7,8.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To shew unto His [servants] SAINTS.</hi><note place='foot'>Words in Sinaitic MS. which do not appear in <q>Authorized</q>
Version are printed in capitals.</note>&mdash;<q>Our Lord Jesus
has promised us that, as the Elder Brother (of the Gospel
House of Sons), whatsoever the Father shall make known
to Him He in turn will make known to us.</q>&mdash;Z. '99-45.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The things.</hi>&mdash;The shifting scenes of Church and State,
the history of the Gospel and Millennial Ages.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which must shortly come to pass.</hi>&mdash;Which began at once,
in St. John's day, and will continue until the completion
of all that he foresaw.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And He sent.</hi>&mdash;He did not come Himself, but acted with
the dignity becoming Him who is now the express Image
of the Father's person. <q>Dwelling in the light which no
man can approach unto, whom no man hath seen, nor
can see.</q>&mdash;Heb. 1:3; 1 Tim. 6:16.
</p>

<pb n='012'/><anchor id='Pg012'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And signified It</hi>&mdash;<q>Our Lord's revelation, which God
gave Him after He had passed into glory, He sent and
signified [<hi rend='italic'>sign</hi>ified, told in signs, symbols, etc.] to His
Church.</q>&mdash;B. 203.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>By His angel.</hi>&mdash;The <q>angel</q> of Rev. 3:14 represented
this messenger who appeared to St. John. Our Lord's
promise in Luke 12:44 is not limited to activities on this
side the veil.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Unto His servant John.</hi>&mdash;<q>This simplicity, common to
all the Apostles, commends them to us as men of humble
mind&mdash;the very kind we should expect our Lord to use as
special messengers to His people.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-343; Rev. 19:10.
</p>

<p>
1:2. <hi rend='sans'>Who bare record.</hi>&mdash;Previously, In the Fourth Gospel,
and in the three epistles bearing his name.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the Word of God.</hi>&mdash;The Logos. St. John has had more
to say of the Logos than had any other Apostle. <q>In
olden times certain kings made addresses to their subjects
by proxy, the king sitting behind a screen, while his word,
or spokesman, stood before the screen, and addressed the
people aloud on subjects whispered to him by the king, who
was not seen, and such a speaker was termed the King's
<foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>logos</foreign>.</q>&mdash;E. 94-85.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And of the testimony.</hi>&mdash;The daily words and deeds, during
the three and a half years of His ministry.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of Jesus Christ.</hi>&mdash;<q>The Faithful and True Witness.</q>&mdash;Rev.
3:14.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[And of all] WHAT things [that] SOEVER he saw.</hi>&mdash;St.
John's powers of observation were acute. His Gospel contains
records of twenty-two events or teachings not mentioned
by the other Evangelists.
</p>

<p>
1:3. <hi rend='sans'>Blessed is he.</hi>&mdash;Singular.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That readeth.</hi>&mdash;Correctly interprets the symbolisms.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And they.</hi>&mdash;Plural.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That hear the [words] WORD of this prophecy.</hi>&mdash;<q>All
who have read and understood even a part of the teachings
of the book were blessed as promised. It was an important
aid to Luther in deciding that the Papacy, of which
he was a conscientious minister, was <q>Antichrist</q></q>&mdash;A. 27.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And keep.</hi>&mdash;Keep the eyes upon, observe (so the Greek
Indicates).&mdash;Rev. 22:7.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Those things which are written therein.</hi>&mdash;<q>There is a
blessing upon those who read this revelation, even though
they do not understand, and a special blessing upon those
who hear and understand the words of this prophecy,
and who conform their lives to the things therein written.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-343.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For the time is at hand.</hi>&mdash;The fulfilments began at once,
in St. John's own day.
</p>

<pb n='013'/><anchor id='Pg013'/>

<p>
1:4. <hi rend='sans'>John to the seven churches.</hi>&mdash;Not merely the seven
literal congregations mentioned in Verse 11 and elsewhere,
but to the epochs of the Church as a whole, from Apostolic
days until now.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which are in Asia.</hi>&mdash;In the Orient, the East, the early
path of the sun. Before the Sun of Righteousness can
illuminate the world of mankind, its rays must first have
passed through the Church, the first to greet and welcome
the New Day.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Grace be unto you.</hi>&mdash;May favor, unmerited, be your happy
portion.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And peace.</hi>&mdash;The Lord's special legacy to His Church.&mdash;John
14:27.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>From Him.</hi>&mdash;Our glorified Lord and Head.&mdash;Rev. 1:8.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which is.</hi>&mdash;Now self-existent, like the Father.&mdash;John 5:26.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And which was.</hi>&mdash;The Logos, the Father's Agent in the
creation of all things (John 1:3), and subsequently, as
man's Redeemer, <q>made a little lower than the angels for
the suffering of death.</q>&mdash;Heb. 2:9.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And which is to come.</hi>&mdash;In glory and great power at His
Second Advent, <q>until He shall have set judgment in the
earth.</q>&mdash;Isa. 42:4.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And from the seven spirits.</hi>&mdash;Lamps of fire, or eyes.
(Rev. 4:5; 5:6.) <q>In this symbolical picture the eye of the
Lord is represented as seven or complete, all-seeing, everywhere,
all-knowing. This is our confidence, this is our rejoicing.</q>&mdash;Z. '05-318;
Zech. 3:9, 4:10.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which are before His Throne.</hi>&mdash;Which are <q>sent forth
into all the earth.</q>&mdash;Rev. 4:5.
</p>

<p>
1:5. <hi rend='sans'>And.</hi>&mdash;<foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>Kai</foreign>, even. For a similar use of the word
see the expression, <q>God Himself and our Father</q> (1 Thes.
3:11), which, in the Diaglott, is rendered, <q>God Himself,
even our Father.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>From Jesus Christ the faithful Witness.</hi>&mdash;<q>Who before
Pontius Pilate witnessed a good confession.</q> (1 Tim.
6:13.) Our Lord's admission to Pilate, <q>I am a King; to
this end was I born, and for this cause came I into the
world</q> (John 18:37), was the direct cause of His death.
The accusation set up over His head was, <q>This is Jesus
the King of the Jews.</q> (John 19:19; Matt. 27:37.) Similarly
faithful admissions may end the earthly careers of
the feet-members of His Body.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The First Begotten of the dead.</hi>&mdash;<q>The First-Born of the
dead ones.</q> (Diaglott.) (1 Cor. 15:20; Col. 1:18; Acts
26:23.) <q>This verse clearly teaches what the creeds of
Christendom ignore; namely, that our Lord was the first
to experience a resurrection to perfection and eternal life
in the full sense of the word.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-343; Acts 13:33, 34.
</p>

<pb n='014'/><anchor id='Pg014'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And.</hi>&mdash;Even.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The Prince.</hi>&mdash;The King-Elect, now ruling in their hearts.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the kings of the earth.</hi>&mdash;His associate kings, <q>The
kings of the East.</q> (Rev. 16:12.) <q>All are to be awakened
from the Adamic death, as though from a sleep. They
will then be under the care of the Royal Priesthood, whose
experience with sin, and whose victory over sin, well fitted
them to be helpful toward those over whom they will reign,
as Kings as well as Priests. (Rev. 5:10.)</q>&mdash;E. 487, 478.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Unto Him that [loved] LOVETH us.</hi>&mdash;Our Lord's love
for us is ever-present.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And [washed] FREED us from our sins [in] BY His
own blood.</hi>&mdash;<q>That it was the death of the Man Christ
Jesus, His <q>blood,</q> that secured our release from sin and
death is most unequivocally stated in many Scriptures.
See 1 Pet 1:2; Acts 4:12; 20:28; Rev. 5:9; Rom. 5:9;
Heb. 13:12.</q>&mdash;E. 458, 446; Matt. 20:28; 1 Tim. 2:6; Rev. 14:4.
</p>

<p>
1:6. <hi rend='sans'>And hath made us.</hi>&mdash;And will make us during the
Millennial Age.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[Kings and] A KINGDOM, priests.</hi>&mdash;The work of a priest
is that of intervention and of instruction in righteousness.
It logically implies subjects and a future work of salvation.&mdash;1
Pet. 2:9; Rev. 5:10; 20:6; 22:5.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Unto God and His Father.</hi>&mdash;<q>Unto the God and Father of
Himself.</q>&mdash;Diaglott. Rom. 15:6; 2 Cor. 1:3; Eph. 1:3.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To Him be glory and dominion for ever and ever.
Amen.</hi>&mdash;<q>He shall have dominion also from sea to sea and
from the river unto the ends of the earth;... and
let the whole earth be filled with His glory; Amen, and
Amen.</q> (Psa. 72:8, 19.) <q>For ever and ever</q> is literally
<q>for the ages of <emph>the</emph> ages.</q> The Millennium and subsequent
ages are the ages of the ages.
</p>

<p>
1:7. <hi rend='sans'>Behold, He cometh with clouds.</hi>&mdash;<q>While the clouds
of trouble hang heavy and dark, when the mountains&mdash;kingdoms
of this world&mdash;are trembling and falling, when
the earth&mdash;organized society&mdash;is being shaken and disintegrated,
some will begin to realize that Jehovah's
Anointed is taking to Himself His great power and is
beginning His work of laying justice to the line and righteousness
to the plummet.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-344; Matt 24:30.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And every eye shall see Him.</hi>&mdash;<q>He will not be visible to
natural sight, but to the eyes of understanding, as these
shall open to an appreciation of the punishments and blessings
which will flow to mankind from His Reign. Our
King will reveal Himself gradually. Some will discern the
new Ruler sooner than will others. But ultimately <q>every
eye shall see [Greek, <foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>horao</foreign>, discern] Him.</q></q>&mdash;Z. '16-344.
</p>

<pb n='015'/><anchor id='Pg015'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And they also which pierced Him.</hi>&mdash;<q>And I will pour upon
the House of David, and upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem
[the Jewish people], the spirit of grace and of supplications:
and they shall look upon Me whom they have
pierced, and they shall mourn for Him, as one mourneth
for his only son.</q>&mdash;Zech. 12:10.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And all kindreds of the earth shall [wail because of]
BEWAIL Him.</hi>&mdash;<q>At the time of our Lord's Second Advent
the world will be far from converted to God; for <q>all kindreds
of the earth shall wail because of Him.</q> Christ comes
before the conversion of the world and for the very purpose
of converting all mankind.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-344.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Even so, Amen.</hi>&mdash;We cannot stop the clouds of the Time
of Trouble, or the tears of disappointment, and later, of
repentance; and we would not if we could. The trouble
and the tears are a necessary preparation for the blessings
which follow.
</p>

<p>
1:8. <hi rend='sans'>I am THE Alpha and I AM ALSO THE Omega.</hi>&mdash;Alpha
is the first letter, and Omega the last letter, of the
Greek alphabet.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The Beginning and the Ending.</hi>&mdash;<q>Our Lord's great
honor is shown in that He was not only the <emph>first</emph> of God's
creation, but the <emph>last</emph>. From this we are to understand
that the great Jehovah did not directly employ His own
power in creating either men or angels; but that He delegated
His power to His <emph>Only</emph>-begotten Son.</q>&mdash;Z. '93-115.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Saith the Lord GOD.</hi>&mdash;But not the clergy; they will have
none of this doctrine.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which is, and which was, and which is to come, the
Almighty.</hi>&mdash;<q>It is since His resurrection that the message
has gone forth&mdash;<q>All power in Heaven and in earth <hi rend='italic'>is given</hi>
unto Me.</q> (Matt 28:18.) Consequently it is only since
then that He could be called the Almighty.</q>&mdash;Z. '93-115;
Rev. 1:4; 16:5-7.
</p>

<p>
1:9. <hi rend='sans'>I John, who [also] am your brother.</hi>&mdash;<q>Instead of
adding titles to his name, as Reverend, Bishop, Overseer
of all the Churches in Asia Minor, we find John introducing
himself as <q>your brother.</q></q>&mdash;Z. '01-187.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And companion in tribulation.</hi>&mdash;<q>He was sharer with
Christ, as a member of His Body, in His afflictions, in His
endurance; and the brother of all fellow-disciples, sharers
of the same sufferings, and prospectively of the same
glory.</q>&mdash;Z. '01-187: Matt. 20:23.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And [In] the kingdom.</hi>&mdash;Now, while <q>the Kingdom of
Heaven suffereth violence;</q> and later, when <q>the Kingdom
and dominion, and the greatness of the Kingdom under
the whole heaven, shall be given to the people of the
saints of the Most High.</q>&mdash;Matt 11:12; Dan. 7:27.
</p>

<pb n='016'/><anchor id='Pg016'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And patience [of] IN Jesus [Christ].</hi>&mdash;When Saul persecuted
the saints, he persecuted Jesus. When St. Paul
suffered as a Christian, it was as part of the <q>dying of
the Lord Jesus.</q> (Acts 9:5; 2 Cor. 4:10.) What St. John
cheerfully endured was endured by Jesus.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Was in the isle that is called Patmos.</hi>&mdash;<q>At the time of
this vision St. John was a prisoner, exiled to the Isle of
Patmos, a penal colony of those days [a convict quarry]&mdash;a
rocky, barren island in the Ægean Sea. The crime for
which he suffered this banishment was his faithfulness as
the Lord's mouthpiece. St. John, the beloved disciple, in
some measure, or degree, represented the last living members
of the Body of Christ (John 21:20-23)&mdash;a class that
see with the eyes of their understanding the visions and
revelations which the beloved disciple saw in symbol in
a trance. If, then, St. John's exile in any degree represents
ostracism which the Lord's followers may expect in
the close of this Age&mdash;a complete isolation from others
and a treatment implying that they are prisoners&mdash;they
may take comfort from the thought that our Lord's favor
and revelation to St. John more than offset his persecutions.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-343.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For the Word of God.</hi>&mdash;<q>St. John, with remarkable modesty,
passes over his previous service for the Truth (Rev.
1:2), which had brought him his persecution, and lightly
passes over the persecution itself, merely noting that he
was in the island because of his fidelity to the Word of
God.</q>&mdash;Z. '01-187.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And for the testimony of Jesus.</hi>&mdash;As recorded in the
Gospel according to St. John and the three Johannean
epistles.
</p>

<p>
1:10. <hi rend='sans'>I was in the spirit.</hi>&mdash;<q>Visions are not realities,
although symbolically representing them. (Dan. 7:1;
Matt. 17:9.) The visions granted to St. John, recorded
in the Revelation, are in no sense to be understood as
realities.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-343; Acts 10:10.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>On the Lord's Day.</hi>&mdash;<q>According to our understanding
of Bible chronology we today are living in the early dawn
of this Day of Christ; and it is here, properly enough,
that we begin to see the wonderful things of the Divine
Character and Plan. But to see and to understand we
must be <q>in the spirit.</q> Only those who have become
New Creatures in Christ can be expected to appreciate
spiritual things; and this is the class which the Apostle
John represented.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-343.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And heard behind me a great voice, as of a trumpet.</hi>&mdash;<q>The
fact that its location is mentioned implies that it
has a <emph>symbolic</emph> meaning. It signifies that the beginning of
<pb n='017'/><anchor id='Pg017'/>
this Message was not in St. John's day, nor in the future,
but that the things revealed had already commenced and
were already to some extent in the past. As some features
of the Revelation show, the voice from behind went back
to the time of our Lord's earthly ministry.</q> (Z. '16-344.)
<q>As John heard a voice behind him and looked in that
direction, so we who now are having the realities find that
the Message is behind us, and turn and look toward the
past to see the fulfilment of the various features of the
Divine Plan and to hear and understand the Message
given to His people by the risen Lord.</q>&mdash;Z. '05-168.
</p>

<p>
1:11. <hi rend='sans'>Saying, [I am Alpha and Omega, the First and the
Last: and] What thou seest, write in a book and send it
unto the seven churches which are in Asia.</hi>&mdash;<q>There are
many reasons for concluding that while the messages were
given to the seven churches specified and were applicable
to them, they should properly have a still wider application
to the whole Church of Christ, the number seven
representing completeness, and the order representing
different epochs in the history of the Church. To think
otherwise would be to attach more importance to those
comparatively small churches of Asia Minor than they
would seem to have deserved, and would have implied an
ignoring of other churches more numerous and more
influential; as, for instance, the churches at Jerusalem,
Antioch, Corinth, Colosse, Philippi, Thessalonica, etc.
Furthermore, the details of the messages given to these
seven churches apply to and fit historically the one Church
of the living God, over every member and branch of which
the Lord has a care. This thought, that the seven represented
completeness, we find emphasized in the other
symbolical representations&mdash;in the seven golden candlesticks,
the seven stars, etc.</q> (Z. '05-168.) Colosse (Col.
1:2), Miletus (Acts 20:17) and Hierapolis (Col. 4:13)
were churches in Asia, not here mentioned. The Asia mentioned
is the westernmost province of Asia Minor.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Unto Ephesus.</hi>&mdash;The Apostolic Age of the Church.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And unto Smyrna.</hi>&mdash;The Church during the period of
persecution by Pagan Rome.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And unto Pergamos.</hi>&mdash;The Church during the period of
the rise of Antichrist.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And unto Thyatira.</hi>&mdash;The Church during the Dark Ages,
the period of Antichrist's glory, and persecution by Papal
Rome.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And unto Sardis.</hi>&mdash;The Church in the dawn of the
Reformation.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And unto Philadelphia.</hi>&mdash;The Church in the period of
reformation by sects.
</p>

<pb n='018'/><anchor id='Pg018'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And unto Laodicea.</hi>&mdash;The Church in the time of the
Lord's Second Presence.
</p>

<p>
1:12. <hi rend='sans'>And I turned to see the voice that spake with
me.</hi>&mdash;<q>The Apostles saw in symbol what the Lord's people
may now see with the eye of faith and understanding. He
saw One like a son of man&mdash;like a man, like a priest, as
implied by the clothes described&mdash;walking amongst seven
golden candlesticks, caring for them, trimming the wicks,
seeing to the supply of oil, etc. Thus our Lord Jesus, our
glorified Master, has directed respecting His people's
affairs, inspecting and caring for the Church as a light-bearer,
a candlestick. Alas, how poor the wicks have
sometimes been! How feeble the light that has sometimes
shone out! How much trimming has been necessary!</q>&mdash;Z. '16-344.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And being turned, I saw seven golden candlesticks.</hi>&mdash;<q>The
Golden Candlestick, or Lamp-stand, which stood
opposite the Golden Table, and gave light to all in the
<q>Holy,</q> was of gold&mdash;all of one piece hammered out. (Exod.
25:31-37.) It had seven branches, each of which held a
lamp, making seven lamps in all&mdash;a perfect or complete
number. This represented the complete Church, from the
Head, Jesus, to and including the last member of the
<q>little flock</q> that He is taking out from among men, to be
partakers of the Divine (gold) nature.</q>&mdash;T. 115; Rev.
1:20; Zech. 4:2; Matt. 5:14-16.
</p>

<p>
1:13. <hi rend='sans'>And in the midst of the seven candlesticks.</hi>&mdash;<q>The
union, the relationship between them, being supplied by
our Redeemer, the antitypical High Priest.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-344.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>One like unto the son of man.</hi>&mdash;<q>This symbolical picture
has precious lessons for us, more valuable than an attempt
to describe to our minds the appearance of our
Lord as a Spirit Being, <q>dwelling in light which no man
can approach unto,</q> and which we cannot appreciate until
we shall be changed to <q>be like Him and see Him as He
is.</q>&mdash;1 John 3:2; 1 Cor. 15:50-53.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-344; Dan. 7:13.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Clothed with a garment down to the foot.</hi>&mdash;<q>The glory of
Christ was manifested in His own person, in His own ministry,
and in that of His Twelve Apostles, His representatives&mdash;St.
Paul taking the place of Judas; with their death
the body of Truth was almost veiled throughout the
eighteen centuries intervening, until now.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-344.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And girt about the breast.</hi>&mdash;The support of the garment
at the breast, instead of the neck, left the arms and shoulders
uncovered, representing that the early Church was
favored with the light of the true Gospel for a considerable
time after our Lord and Head had completed His earthly
ministry.
</p>

<pb n='019'/><anchor id='Pg019'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>With a golden girdle.</hi>&mdash;Gold is a symbol of the Divine
nature; the girdle a symbol of service. (Rev. 15:6.)
Throughout the Age the Lord has been serving His Church.
<q>Blessed are those servants, whom the Lord when He
cometh shall find watching; verily I say unto you that
He shall gird Himself, and make them to sit down to meat,
and will come forth and serve them.</q> <q>I am among you
as he that serveth.</q>&mdash;Luke 12:37; 22:27.
</p>

<p>
1:14. <hi rend='sans'>His head and His hairs were white like wool, as
white as snow.</hi>&mdash;<q>The head, with its white hair, is not to
teach us that our Lord in glory has the form of a man,
with white hairs, but merely suggestive and symbolic of
knowledge, experience, wisdom.</q>&mdash;Z. '01-188; Matt. 17:2.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And His eyes were as a flame of fire.</hi>&mdash;<q>His eyes like a
flame of fire tell us in symbol that our Master is all-seeing,
omniscient; that He is not deceived by outward forms and
ceremonies; but that He can, and does, read every thought
and intent of the heart.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-344; Rev. 19:12.
</p>

<p>
1:15. <hi rend='sans'>And His feet like unto fine brass.</hi>&mdash;<q>The feet, described
as like furnace-refined copper, seem to say that
those who belong to the Body of Christ, and whom the
Lord would use in His service, <q>the feet</q> members of the
Body, must, in their contact and dealings with the world,
be refined, purified, clean&mdash;<q>Be ye clean, that bear the
vessels of the Lord's house.</q></q>&mdash;Z. '01-188; Ezek. 1:7.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>As if they burned in a furnace.</hi>&mdash;<q>In the end of the Age,
the feet members of the Body of Christ will be illuminated
by the Truth and will shine forth&mdash;not like the Head, but
as polished brass. We have shining upon us with almost
burning brightness the focused rays of Divine inspiration
and revelation from the past 6,000 years. How it should
consume in us all the dross of selfishness! How it should
purify us! How humble it should make us!</q>&mdash;Z. '16-344.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And His voice as the sound of many waters.</hi>&mdash;<q>The many
waters signify peoples, nations and languages, as elsewhere
explained in this book. Thus our Lord, present with
His Church, speaks to her and through her by many
tongues, in many languages.</q>&mdash;Z. '01-188; Rev. 19:6.
</p>

<p>
1:16. <hi rend='sans'>And He had in His right hand.</hi>&mdash;<q>This One whom
we thus know, thus recognize, as the Instructor and Caretaker
of the candlesticks, we are also to recognize as
having in His right hand&mdash;in His favor as well as His
power&mdash;seven stars, the angels, the messengers, of the
seven Churches. That they are in His right hand seems
to teach us that these should be considered as in some
special sense under the Master's guidance, protection and
care in the interest of the Churches which they represented.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-345;
Jer. 22:24.
</p>

<pb n='020'/><anchor id='Pg020'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Seven stars.</hi>&mdash;<q>Apparently the stars represent special
ministers, or servants of the Church. In Revelation 12:1
the Church is pictured as a Woman crowned with twelve
stars. These stars evidently represent the Twelve
Apostles as the special lights of the Church. Similarly, in
the picture before us, the seven stars which the Lord
holds in His right hand seem to represent special light-bearers
in the Church&mdash;in each of its seven phases, or
stages, of development. It will be noticed that the messages
to the various Churches are sent by these stars,
messengers, angels, as though our Lord would have us
understand that the appropriate message for each appropriate
epoch in the Church's experience would be sent by
the Lord through a particular star, or messenger, whom
He would especially commission as His representative.
Our Lord Himself is represented by the great light of the
sun; and His special messengers in the Church throughout
the entire period of the Gospel Age are consistently
enough represented as stars.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-345; Rev. 1:20.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And out of His mouth went a sharp two-edged sword.</hi>&mdash;<q>No
part of the description could more thoroughly convince
us that the description of our Lord given here is symbolic.
As a symbolic picture, it speaks to us of the Word of the
Lord, the Sword of the Spirit, <q>sharper than any two-edged
sword.</q> (Eph. 6:17; Heb. 4:12.) It reminds us that our
Lord's words are not one-sided, not directed merely against
sin in one class, but that His Word is sharp, cutting in
every direction; that sin is reproved by Him as much when
found in His most earnest followers as when found elsewhere.
It assures us that none need attempt to pluck out
the mote from his brother's eye without first getting rid of
the beam in his own eye; and that if we do not show mercy
to those who are our debtors we must not expect mercy
from Him who has purposed to extend His mercy toward
us. How heart-searching is God's Word when we understand
it&mdash;not merely as a compendium of rules and regulations,
but when we catch the spirit of it! Then we come
to see that its requirement is love out of a pure heart;
first, to the Heavenly Father; secondly, to our Lord and
Head; thirdly, to all His brethren; fourthly, to the world in
general, groaning and travailing in pain, waiting for the
blessings of the coming Day of Christ; and fifthly, toward
our enemies also, sympathetically realizing that they are
warped, twisted and blinded through the deceitfulness of
sin and through the machinations of the great Adversary.&mdash;2
Cor. 4:4.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-345; Rev. 2:12, 16; 19:15, 21; Isa. 11:4.
</p>

<pb n='021'/><anchor id='Pg021'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And His countenance [was as the sun] shineth AS THE
SUN in his strength.</hi>&mdash;<q>And his face was as it were the
sun.</q>&mdash;Rev. 10:1; Acts 26:13.
</p>

<p>
1:17. <hi rend='sans'>And when I saw Him, I fell at His feet as dead.</hi>&mdash;<q>So
great was the splendor that St. John fell as dead, just
as Daniel did in the presence of the mighty One whom he
saw, and just as Saul of Tarsus did before the majesty
presented to him. (Dan. 10:4-11; Acts 9:3-9.) So it is
symbolically with the Christian, when once he gets a
glimpse of the glories of the Divine Character. When once
we get a true view of Him with whom we have to do, as
the great Heart-searcher and Caretaker of His Church, we
fall before Him, humbled to the dust, realizing that we
are imperfect, that we cannot stand before our Master, that
we are unworthy of His blessing.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-344; Ezek. 1:28.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And He laid His right hand upon me.</hi>&mdash;<q>As our Lord
touched St. John gently, raising him up, so He has spoken
to us comfort, peace and love, assuring us that we have
a High Priest that can be touched with a feeling of our
infirmities, One who is able to sympathize and mercifully
to assist.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-345.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Saying [unto me, Fear not]; I am the First and the
Last.</hi>&mdash;<q>We must recognize that our Lord is the One who
was the beginning of the creation of God and the end of it,
the One by whom are all things, next to the Father in
everything pertaining to the affairs of the Universe.&mdash;Col.
1:15; Rev. 3:14; John 1:1-3; 1 Cor. 8:6.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-345; Rev.
1:11; 2:8.
</p>

<p>
1:18. <hi rend='sans'>I am He that liveth, and was dead.</hi>&mdash;<q>The Lord
now liveth, and in order to appreciate this we understand
that He was dead for parts of three days&mdash;not merely apparently
dead, but actually <emph>dead</emph>&mdash;His soul poured out unto
death, made an offering for sin.&mdash;Isa. 53:10-12.</q> (Z. '01-189.)
<q>It was because Christ's soul (being) was dead that the
Apostles could declare that unless His soul, being, were
made alive again by a resurrection there could be no hope
in Him as a Savior and a Life-giver.</q>&mdash;Z. '01-122.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And behold, I am alive for evermore, [Amen].</hi>&mdash;<q>Death
has no more dominion over Him. (Rom. 6:9.) Neither
sacrifices of the Mass nor death in any sense or form ever
will be needed. His work is perfect. <q>It is finished!</q></q>&mdash;Z.
'16-345; John 19:30.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And have the keys of [hell] DEATH.</hi>&mdash;<q>He has the key,
the power over death, in order that those who have not yet
gone into the tomb, but who are under the death sentence,
may all be ultimately delivered into the full liberty of the
sons of God&mdash;righteousness and life everlasting.&mdash;Rom.
8:21.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-345.
</p>

<pb n='022'/><anchor id='Pg022'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And of [death] HELL.</hi>&mdash;<q>These words imply that the
Lord's people go to <foreign rend='italic'>Hades</foreign>, and that the hope when going
down to <foreign rend='italic'>Hades</foreign>, to oblivion, is that in due time our great
Redeemer shall unlock this figurative prisonhouse of death
and bring forth the captives. This is the significance of the
statement that He has the keys&mdash;He can open; all power
is given into His hand. In preaching at His First Advent,
He declared this to be the Gospel. (Isa. 61:1; Luke 4:18.)
How full of meaning are these Scriptures when viewed
from the proper standpoint; how confusing and absurd
when viewed from any other!</q>&mdash;E. 397, 378.
</p>

<p>
1:19. <hi rend='sans'>Write THEREFORE the things which thou hast
seen.</hi>&mdash;John was personally familiar with the first epoch,
then already in the past. What he wrote of that epoch
(Rev. 2:1-7) serves as a guide to what follows.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the things which are.</hi>&mdash;John was writing in the second
epoch, already in its persecution era.&mdash;Rev. 2:8-11.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the things which [shall be] MUST SHORTLY
COME TO PASS hereafter.</hi>&mdash;The five remaining epochs of
the Church, and the Kingdom to follow.
</p>

<p>
1:20. <hi rend='sans'>The mystery of the seven stars.</hi>&mdash;Every true reformer
must go contrary to the current of his times; and,
in proportion as he has the Master's spirit, he cannot fail
to be, like Him, a man of mystery to his own generation&mdash;<q>a
Stone of Stumbling and a Rock of Offense</q>&mdash;to those
who have not <q>ears to hear.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which thou sawest in My right hand.</hi>&mdash;Small wonder that
these great reformers seemed almost to have charmed lives!
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the seven golden candlesticks.</hi>&mdash;<q>The Candlestick, or
Lampstand, represents the nominal, rather than the true
Church. This is shown by the fact that in addressing each
of these churches the Lord finds fault with the many and
approves the faithful few.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-344.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The seven stars.</hi>&mdash;<q>The star-light is the Heavenly light,
the spiritual enlightenment or instruction. The lamp-light
is the earthly light, representing good works, obedience,
etc., of those who are exhorted to let their light so shine
that it will glorify their Father in Heaven.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-345.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Are the angels of the seven churches.</hi>&mdash;<q>The title is borrowed
from the Jewish Synagogue, in which the angel, or
messenger of the assembly, was the person who presided
over and arranged the meetings for worship.</q> (Cook.)&mdash;Mal.
2:7; Hag. 1:13.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the seven candlesticks [which thou sawest] are the
seven churches.</hi>&mdash;<q>Alas! The Master evidently found but
few good works, little glorifying light shining out from His
earthly representatives in many of the seven epochs of the
history of the Church.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-344; Rev. 1:12; Zech. 4:2.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='023'/><anchor id='Pg023'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Revelation 2&mdash;St. Paul, St. John, Arius And Waldo</head>

<p>
2:1. <hi rend='sans'>[Unto] BY the angel.</hi>&mdash;The special messenger in the
Harvest of the Jewish Age was St. Paul. A Hebrew of the
Hebrews (Phil. 3:5), he was a free-born Roman citizen
(Acts 22:25-29), highly educated (Acts 22:3), spoke Greek
(Acts 21:37) and Hebrew (Acts 22:2), and was presumably
a member of the Sanhedrin at the time of St. Stephen's
death. (Acts 7:58; 8:1; 26:10.) Chosen before his birth
(Gal. 1:15), he was supernaturally inducted into the Body
of Christ (Acts 9:1-22) to take the place of Judas (Psa.
109:8; Acts 1:20), was privately instructed in the fullness
of the Gospel (Gal. 1:11, 12, 17), was specially commissioned
to explain this Gospel to the brethren at Jerusalem
(Gal. 2:1, 2), did not hesitate to correct the erring Peter
(Gal. 2:11), was acknowledged by St. Peter as filled with
Heavenly wisdom (2 Pet. 3:15, 16), wrote over half of the
books of the New Testament, carried the Gospel into
Europe (Acts 16:9), supported himself with his own hands
while he preached (Acts 20:32-35), and suffered almost unbelievable
hardships of every description&mdash;besides having
<q>the care of all the churches.</q> (2 Cor. 11:24-28.) What a
service and honor, here and hereafter, Judas missed by his
love of money! St. Paul was beheaded by Nero, A. D. 66.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the church [of] IN Ephesus.</hi>&mdash;The first age of the
Church began at Pentecost in the spring of A. D. 33, and
ended in the spring of A. D. 73. <q>It may be proper to
mention also what things occurred that show the benignity
of that all-gracious Providence, that had deferred their destruction
for forty years after their crimes against Christ.</q>
(Eusebius' <hi rend='italic'>Ecclesiastical History</hi>.) <q>On the 15th of Nisan,
i. e., of April, in the year 73 A. D., the first day of the
Easter festival, the same day on which, according to tradition,
the God of Israel had led His people out of Egyptian
bondage into freedom, the last bulwark of Israel's liberty
had fallen, and Israel was delivered into bondage.</q>
(Cornil's <hi rend='italic'>History of the People of Israel</hi>.) <q>Masada attained
great importance in the war with the Romans....
With the fall of Masada the war came to an end, on
the 15th of Nisan, 73.</q> (<hi rend='italic'>The Jewish Encyclopedia</hi>.) <q>The
capture of Masada, a Jewish fortress on the southwestern
shores of the Dead Sea, put a termination to one of the
<pb n='024'/><anchor id='Pg024'/>
fiercest struggles recorded in history (73 A. D.)</q>&mdash;Morrison's
<hi rend='italic'>Jews Under Roman Rule</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<q>Judea was not entirely subjugated; for three strong
fortresses were still in arms: Herodium, Machaerus, and
Masada.... The heroes agreed to this proposal (of
their leader Eleasar) even with enthusiasm, and on the
first day of the great Feast of the Passover (A. D. 73),
after slaying their own wives and children, they all perished
on their own swords.</q> (Graetz's <hi rend='italic'>History of the Jews</hi>,
Vol. 2.) <q>Eleasar accordingly persuaded all his people during
that night to kill their wives and children and then
themselves, but to burn all their treasures first. The next
day the Romans found only 960 dead bodies, whilst but two
women and five children hid themselves in caverns and
were discovered. The Easter of the year 73, just seven
years from the beginning of the great movement and 40
years after Christ's crucifixion, saw this end of the whole
tragedy.</q> (Ewald's <hi rend='italic'>History of Israel</hi>, Vol. 7, which is entitled
<q>The Apostolic Age,</q> and which Prof. Ewald makes
to end with the year A. D. 73.) Josephus also relates that
Masada fell on the 15th of Nisan, April, A. D. 73; but the
quotation is too lengthy to be inserted here.
</p>

<p>
The meaning of the word <hi rend='italic'>Ephesus</hi> is <q>permission,</q>
which, understood as <q>approval,</q> harmonizes well with the
tradition that the meaning is <q>desirable.</q> Anything that
has approval is desirable.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Write.</hi>&mdash;St. Paul wrote a third of the New Testament.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>These things saith He that holdeth the seven stars in
His right hand.</hi>&mdash;<q>In the first chapter we have a description
of <q>One like unto a son of man.</q> Some one or more of the
features of this description are mentioned in connection
with each of the successive stages of the Church.</q>&mdash;Z.
'16-346; Rev. 1:16, 20.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Who walketh in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks.</hi>&mdash;<q>We
could not doubt the love and care of our
glorified Head even if He had given us no explicit declaration
on the subject.</q> (F. 401; Rev. 1:13; Lev. 24:2-4.)
</p>

<p>
2:2. <hi rend='sans'>I know thy works.</hi>&mdash;The early Christians <q>took joyfully
the spoiling of their goods</q> (Heb. 10:34); in <q>great
trial of affliction</q> they abounded in joy, and in <q>deep poverty</q>
were liberal <q>beyond their power.</q> (2 Cor. 8:2, 3.)
They were living epistles, <q>known and read of all men.</q>&mdash;2
Cor. 8:2, 3.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And thy labor.</hi>&mdash;Considered as betrayers of the Jewish
faith; living in the midst of heathen idolatry, without railways,
steamships, automobiles, bicycles, telegraphs, telephones,
printing, postal service, electricity, gas, or kerosene&mdash;in
the midst of densest ignorance and basest morals&mdash;the
<pb n='025'/><anchor id='Pg025'/>
early Christians traversed the seas and lands of the known
world, braving floggings, stonings, hunger, thirst, cold,
nakedness and martyrdom, that they might tell the good
news of the coming Kingdom.&mdash;2 Cor. 11:24-27.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And thy patience.</hi>&mdash;<foreign rend='italic'>Hupomonee.</foreign> <q>An endurance of
wrong or affliction with contentment, without rebellion of
will, with full acquiescence in the Divine Wisdom and
Love.</q>&mdash;Z. '01-115.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And how thou canst not bear them which are evil.</hi>&mdash;<q>How
much earnestness it produced in you! what an
apology! what indignation! what earnest desire! what
zeal! what a punishment! In everything you proved yourselves
to be pure in this matter.</q> (2 Cor. 7:11, Diaglott.)
<q>Sufficient for such a person is this punishment, which
was inflicted by the majority; so that, on the other hand,
you ought to forgive and comfort him, lest such an one
should be overwhelmed by excessive sorrow. Wherefore I
entreat you publicly to confirm your love towards him.</q>&mdash;2
Cor. 2:6-8, Diaglott.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And thou hast tried.</hi>&mdash;Made experiment of, Greek implies.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Them which [say they are] CALL THEMSELVES
apostles, and are not, and hast found them liars.</hi>&mdash;<q>Giving
out that himself was some great one,</q> like the clergy of
other times, Simon Magus sought <q>also this power, that
on whomsoever I lay hands, he may receive the Holy
Spirit,</q> but learned that he had <q>neither part nor lot in
this matter</q> because his heart was <q>not right in the sight of
God.</q> (Acts 8:9-24.) Also, there were <q>certain men
which came down from Judea</q> (Acts 15:1, 2), the <q>false
apostles, deceitful workers, transforming themselves into
the apostles of Christ</q> in Corinth (2 Cor. 11:12-15);
<q>Hymenaeus and Alexander</q> (1 Tim. 1:20); <q>Philetus</q> (2
Tim. 2:17); those who would <q>pervert the Gospel of Christ</q>
in Galatia (Gal. 1:7); <q>Phygellus and Hermogenes.</q>&mdash;2
Tim. 1:15; Acts 20:28-30; Rev. 2:6.
</p>

<p>
2:3. <hi rend='sans'>And [hast borne and] hast patience.</hi>&mdash;<foreign rend='italic'>Hupomonee</foreign>,
constant, cheerful endurance.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And ALL AFFLICTIONS AND HAST BORNE for My
name's sake [hast labored].</hi>&mdash;<q>And hast suffered on account
of My name.</q> (Diaglott.) <q>As concerning this sect, we
know that everywhere it is spoken against.</q> (Acts 28:22.)
The natural course is, hatred, slander, then murder. (Matt.
5:21, 22.) It is said that Peter was crucified with
head downward (A. D. 70); Andrew was crucified on a
cross decussate (X); James was murdered by Herod (A. D.
44), (Acts 12:2); Bartholomew was first flayed alive and
then crucified with his head downward; Matthew died a
martyr (supposedly); Thomas was impaled on a spear;
<pb n='026'/><anchor id='Pg026'/>
James the son of Alphaeus was thrown down from the
Temple and was then stoned, and his brains dashed out
with a club; Simon Zelotes was crucified; Paul beheaded.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And hast not fainted.</hi>&mdash;<q>Let us not be weary in well
doing: for in due time we shall reap, if we faint not.</q>
(Gal. 6:9.) <q>Consider Him that endured such contradiction
of sinners against Himself, lest ye be wearied and faint in
your minds.</q>&mdash;Heb. 12:3.
</p>

<p>
2:4. <hi rend='sans'>Nevertheless I have somewhat against thee.</hi>&mdash;The
Lord's nominal people of the Apostolic Age.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Because thou hast left thy first love.</hi>&mdash;<q>I marvel that ye
are so soon removed from Him that called you into the
grace of Christ unto another gospel.</q>&mdash;Gal. 1:6.
</p>

<p>
2:5. <hi rend='sans'>Remember therefore from whence thou art fallen.</hi>&mdash;<q>Call
to remembrance the former days, in which, after ye
were illuminated, ye endured a great fight of afflictions;
partly, whilst ye were made a gazing stock both by reproaches
and afflictions; and partly, whilst ye became
companions of them that were so used.</q>&mdash;Heb. 10:32, 33.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And repent, and do the first works.</hi>&mdash;<q>Cast not away
therefore your confidence, which hath great recompense of
reward.</q>&mdash;Heb. 10:35.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Or else I will come unto thee [quickly], and will remove
thy candlestick out of his place, except thou repent.</hi>&mdash;The
nominal church was in grave danger of being disowned and
rejected. <q>By far the larger proportion were not consecrated
to death, not of the Royal Priesthood, but merely
Levites, doing the service of the Sanctuary, but not <emph>sacrificing</emph>.</q>&mdash;T.
118.
</p>

<p>
2:6. <hi rend='sans'>But this thou hast, that thou hatest the deeds of
the Nicolaitanes.</hi>&mdash;<q>Conquerors of the people</q>&mdash;the
clergy.&mdash;Rev. 2:15.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which I also hate.</hi>&mdash;When the Lord's people hate the
idea of a class that seeks to be <q>lords over God's heritage</q>
(1 Pet. 5:2, 3), they hate something that the Lord hates.
</p>

<p>
2:7. <hi rend='sans'>He that hath an ear.</hi>&mdash;To receive and understand
the voice of God through His Word.&mdash;Matthew 11:15;
13:9, 43; Rev. 13:9.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches.</hi>&mdash;<q>If
they have persecuted Me, they will also persecute you;
if they have kept [observed, <q>heard</q>] My saying, they
will keep yours also.</q>&mdash;John 15:20.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To him that overcometh.</hi>&mdash;See 1 John 2:13, 14.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Will I give to eat of the tree of life.</hi>&mdash;<q>All the trees in
Eden were trees of life, and the overcomers of the Gospel
Age shall have full liberty to partake of <q>the tree of the
knowledge of good and evil</q> when the knowledge will be
of benefit to them, and not bring a curse.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-346.
</p>

<pb n='027'/><anchor id='Pg027'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which is in the [midst of the] Paradise of God.</hi>&mdash;<q>Paradise,
the garden of God, was applicable as a name
to the Garden of Eden, in which our first parents resided
while they were still in harmony with God, before their
disobedience; and the same term is Scripturally applied as
a name to the new earth when restitution blessings shall,
during our Lord's Second Presence (the Millennium),
have brought it to perfection as the fit abode of those
who, under Divine favor, shall then prove worthy of life
everlasting. It is this same Paradise of the future on this
earth that our Lord referred to when addressing the penitent
thief, and that is elsewhere referred to as <q>the third
heaven</q>&mdash;<q>new heavens and a new earth.</q> (2 Cor. 12:2, 4;
2 Pet. 3:13.)</q>&mdash;Z. '01-198.
</p>

<p>
2:8. <hi rend='sans'>And [unto] BY the angel.</hi>&mdash;The mouthpiece of the
Lord to the second epoch of the Church was St. John
himself. He was the one whom Jesus specially loved
(John 13:23; 20:2; 21:7, 20); to him Jesus committed
His choicest earthly possession (John 19:26); length of
days were implied in the Lord's statement, <q>If I will that
he tarry till I come, what is that to thee?</q> (John 21:22.)
He died at Ephesus at the age of 100, four years after
writing the Apocalypse. Polycarp, Ignatius and Papias,
his disciples, record that he was a tower of strength to
the Church when the Roman Emperors Nero, Domitian
and Trajan were endeavoring to destroy the hated sect.
When all his capacity to work was gone, and he had no
strength even to stand, he used to be carried into the
Christian assemblies where he would repeat the exhortation,
<q>Little children, love one another.</q> <q>The end of the
commandment is love</q> (1 Tim. 1:5); and it is significant
that the epoch of the Church especially under St. John's
faithful and loving care receive no reproof whatever
from the Lord.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the church in Smyrna.</hi>&mdash;Greek, <foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>myrrh</foreign>. The word
means <q>bitter,</q> and, as applied to the history of the
church from A. D. 73 to 325, is peculiarly appropriate.
This era comprised persecutions under Nero, when Christian
women were soaked with tar and burned as torches
to light the path of his chariot; under Domitian, in the
year 95, when 40,000 suffered martyrdom; under Trajan
in the year 100; under Antoninus; under Severus in the
year 127, when beautiful and amiable young women were
stripped naked before insulting mobs and gored to death
by wild cattle; under Maximinus in A. D. 235; under
Decius in 250, when all Christians were driven from their
estates; under Valerian in 257; under Aurelian in 274;
and under Diocletian in A. D. 303.
</p>

<pb n='028'/><anchor id='Pg028'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Write.</hi>&mdash;St. John wrote more of the New Testament
than any other except St. Paul.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>These things saith the First and the Last.</hi>&mdash;<q>In no other
sense or way could He be the First and the Last than
as the only direct creation of the Father, through whom
all else was created. Any other view would be in conflict
with the Scriptures. (Rev. 3:14; Col. 1:15; 1 Cor.
8:6; John 1:1-3, Diaglott.)</q>&mdash;Z. '16-346; Rev. 1:11, 17.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which was dead, and is alive.</hi>&mdash;This, in itself, must
have been a message of comfort and hope to the suffering
martyrs.&mdash;Rev. 1:18.
</p>

<p>
2:9. <hi rend='sans'>I know thy works, and tribulation, and poverty.</hi>&mdash;<q>Some
of the most sublime pictures of Christian endurance
that the world has ever seen were enacted during
the Smyrna period of the Church.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-346.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>But thou art rich.</hi>&mdash;<q>The blessing of the Lord, it maketh
rich.</q>&mdash;Prov. 10:22; Luke 12:21; 1 Tim. 6:18; James 2:5.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And I know the blasphemy of them which say they are
Jews, and are not.</hi>&mdash;<q><q>They are not all Israel which are
of Israel.</q> (Rom. 9:6, 7.) <q>He is not a Jew which is a
Jew outwardly, neither is that circumcision which is outward
in the flesh; but he is a Jew which is one inwardly,
and circumcision is that of the heart.</q></q>&mdash;Z. '99-68.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>But are the synagogue of Satan.</hi>&mdash;<q>Sold under sin, by
our first parent, Adam, his family became <q>slaves of sin</q>
through the weakness of heredity. (Rom. 5:12, 21;
6:16-23; 7:14; 8:20, 21.) In this captive condition they
have been blinded by the god (ruler) of the present evil
world (condition) who puts evil before their minds as
good, and darkness for light. (2 Cor. 4:4; Eph. 6:12;
Isa. 5:20.) He has general control; first of the masses
through ignorance; and secondly, of the more intelligent
through pride, selfishness, etc.</q>&mdash;E. 205, 189.
</p>

<p>
2:10. <hi rend='sans'>Fear none of those things which thou shalt suffer.</hi>&mdash;Some
were covered with the skins of wild beasts and
torn in pieces by devouring dogs; some were tortured
in red-hot iron chairs; the throats of Christian infants
were cut; and edicts were published in all places against
the Christians, who were exposed, without protection, to
the common rage.&mdash;Matt. 10:22.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Behold, the Devil.</hi>&mdash;<q>It is because there are such beasts
as lions, bears and leopards, with known characteristics,
that governments were likened to them; and so, it is
because there is a Devil, with known characteristics, that
the fourth empire is likened to him.</q> (A. 259.) The Devil
used the Roman empire as an instrument.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Shall cast some of you into prison.</hi>&mdash;Restrain your liberties
and opportunities for service.
</p>

<pb n='029'/><anchor id='Pg029'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That ye may be tried.</hi>&mdash;<q>Those who have read the history
of this period can understand the depths of these
words.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-346; Jas. 1:2, 3; 1 Pet. 1:6, 7.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And ye shall have tribulation ten days.</hi>&mdash;<q>The ten symbolic
days refer to the last and most severe persecution
under the Roman Emperors&mdash;that of the reign of Diocletian,
A. D. 303-313.</q> (Z. '16-346.) <q>This persecution continued
from February 23, A. D. 303, to June 13, A. D. 313.
It began in Nicomedia, and became universal. Some were
impaled alive; some had their limbs broken, and were
left to expire. Some were roasted by slow fires; some
suspended by their feet with their heads downward, and,
a fire being placed under them, were suffocated by the
smoke. Some had melted lead poured down their throats;
the flesh of some was torn off with fingers and toes.
Houses filled with Christians were set on fire. Numbers
of Christians were tied together and thrown into the sea.
Seventeen thousand were slain in one month; and during
the continuance of this persecution in Egypt alone
144,000 Christians died by violence, besides 700,000 that
died through the fatigues of banishment or the public
works to which they were condemned. Coins were struck,
and inscriptions set up recording the fact that Christian
superstition was now utterly exterminated.</q>&mdash;McC.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Be thou faithful unto death.</hi>&mdash;<q>It is required of all consecrators
that they shall <q>die daily,</q> and that the end,
with us as with our Lord and Head, shall be literal death.
As it is written: <q>I have said, Ye are gods [<foreign lang='he' rend='italic'>elohim</foreign>&mdash;mighty
ones], all of you sons of the Highest; yet ye shall
die like men, ye shall fall like one of the princes</q>&mdash;not
like Prince Adam, convicts; but like Prince Jesus, participators
in His death. (Psa. 82:6, 7.)</q>&mdash;F. 444.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And I will give thee a Crown of Life.</hi>&mdash;<q>The Apostle
James speaks of the same crown and calls it the Crown
of Life. (Jas. 1:12.) The Apostle Peter speaking of the
same calls it the Crown of Glory. (1 Pet. 5:4.) The
thought at the bottom of each of these expressions is the
same; namely, the custom in olden times of running
races and the giving of a crown to the successful runner
at the end of the course. Our reward will be the Crown
of Life in the sense that we shall get life on the highest
plane, inherent life, immortality. It will be a Crown of
Righteousness in the sense that only those who are approved
of God as righteous will thus be rewarded and
glorified&mdash;the righteousness of the Lord fulfilled in us who
walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit.</q>&mdash;Z. '03-190;
Rev. 3:11; 2 Tim. 2:15; Isa. 62:3; Phil. 3:14.
</p>

<pb n='030'/><anchor id='Pg030'/>

<p>
2:11 <hi rend='sans'>He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit
saith unto the churches; he that overcometh.</hi>&mdash;The overcomer
of this Gospel Age only.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Shall not be hurt of the Second Death.</hi>&mdash;His victory is
eternal.
</p>

<p>
2:12. <hi rend='sans'>And [to] BY the angel.</hi>&mdash;The messenger whose
testimony was of special value to the Church while the
Papacy was rising into power was Arius. He <q>maintained
that the Son of God was totally and essentially
distinct from the Father; that He was the first and noblest
of those beings whom God had created&mdash;the instrument
by whose subordinate operation He formed the Universe;
and therefore inferior to the Father both in nature and
dignity.</q> (Buck.) <q>The controversy spread like a flame
throughout the empire. Accordingly the first ecumenical
council was held at Nice, A. D. 325, consisting of 318
bishops, most of whom were from the East. The gist of
the question to be settled by the Council of Nice lay in
the argument of Arius: <q>The Father is a father; the
Son is a son; therefore the Father must have existed
before the Son; therefore once the Son was not; therefore
He was made, like all creatures, of a substance that had
not previously existed.</q> The creed, as finally adopted,
condemned the heresy of Arius and fixed the doctrine as
it has been held in the church to this day. Of all the
bishops only Thomas of Marmarica, and Secundus of
Ptolemais, held out against the threat of banishment by
the Emperor. Arius was excommunicated and banished,
and his books burnt.</q>&mdash;McC.
</p>

<p>
<q>From the time the Nicene Creed was promulgated and
accepted, A. D. 325, there was practically no more Bible
study for over twelve centuries. During all that time
Bible study was considered unnecessary, because the
Apostolic Bishops had formulated the creeds as proper
statements of the Church's faith. To study the Bible
would have meant the studying of how to fight against
the Emperor and the bishops.</q> (Z. '15-253.) <q>As a result
of the failure of these bishops to stand by the Word of
the Lord, God's people for centuries have been confessing
a Divine trinity, which is incomprehensible; and meantime
been neglecting the trinity taught by the Bible,
which is more reasonable. If the trinity of the creeds
was questioned, hands were lifted in horror, and the
questioner was told that the subject was a mystery, which
he could not possibly understand, but to doubt which
would mean his damnation! The mysterious proposition
was sometimes stated to be 3 × 1 is 1; but others stated
<pb n='031'/><anchor id='Pg031'/>
it differently, 1 × 3 is 1. No wonder if some of the more
intelligent specimens of our race declared themselves incapable
of understanding such mathematics, and too honest
to confess and profess what they could not believe!</q>
(B. S. M.) The witness of Arius created a profound
impression. <q>The doctrine was carried, in the fifth century,
into Africa, under the Vandals; and into Asia, under
the Goths. But it sunk almost at once, when the Vandals
were driven out of Africa, and the Goths out of Italy, by
the arms of Justinian. However, it revived again in Italy,
under the protection of the Lombards, in the seventh century,
and was not extinguished till about the end of the
eighth. Arianism was revived in the West by Servetus, in
1531, for which he suffered death.</q>&mdash;Buck.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the church in Pergamos.</hi>&mdash;From <foreign rend='italic'>Purgos</foreign>, a tower or
citadel. <q>The name was originally given to a remarkable
hill, presenting a conical appearance when viewed from
the plain, and strongly fortified by nature and art.</q>
(S. B. D.) Concerning the literal city of Pergamos, of
which the rising Papacy was the antitype, we read, <q>The
sumptuousness of the princes raised Pergamos to the
rank of the first city of Asia as regards splendor. It was
a sort of union of a pagan cathedral city, a university
town, and a royal residence, embellished during a succession
of years by kings who all had a passion for expenditure
and ample means of gratifying it.</q>&mdash;McC.
</p>

<p>
From the witness by Arius in 325 to the witness by
the next special messenger of the Church was the long
period of 835 years; and during all that time the Papacy
was slowly rising, pushing itself higher and higher. <q>The
first ecumenical council of Nice (325), in its sixth canon,
makes only an incidental mention of the Roman bishop.
The first pope, in the real sense, was Leo I (440-461).
The bishops of the African and the Spanish churches submitted
to his demands, and he gained an important foothold
even in the East. In Gaul, however, he met with a
most determined resistance. Gregory I (590-604) saw that
the bishops of Rome could not enjoy the ecclesiastical
supremacy at which they aimed until they threw off their
political dependency. The triumph of the Catholic Church
over Arianism in Spain greatly promoted his plans; but
he did not as yet actually possess the power of the
mediaeval popes. In the seventh and eighth centuries a
series of important events gave the popes a high and
influential position among the secular governments of
the world. The actual power was, however, for several
centuries, not commensurate with their claims and aspirations.
In 1073, Hildebrand (Gregory VII), after being for
<pb n='032'/><anchor id='Pg032'/>
about twenty-five years the guide of the Papal policy,
boldly set forth the theory of a theocratic rule of the pope
over all the nations of the world. The period from Gregory
VII onward is an almost continuous conflict between the
popes and the secular governments, during which the former,
with an iron firmness, endeavored at first to destroy
the direct influence of the princes upon the church, and
secondly, to subject all secular governments to the church.
This conflict was ended by the Concordat of Worms (1122),
by which Emperor Henry V, after the precedence of the
governments of England and France, surrendered <q>to God,
to St. Peter and Paul, and to the Catholic Church, all right
of investiture.</q></q> (McC.) The Pergamos (<q>earthly elevation</q>)
era ended in A. D. 1160, as will be shown.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Write.</hi>&mdash;Arius' writings were destroyed by Constantine.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>These things saith He which hath the sharp sword with
two edges.</hi>&mdash;How the sharp sword, God's Word, wielded
by Arius before the Emperor and his brother elders at the
Nicean Council, must have cut some of them to the heart
when they saw the gentle and aged man (Arius was old at
the time the controversy arose) banished into the Balkan
mountains, one of the most inhospitable places in the
world!&mdash;Isa. 11:4, 49:2; Hos. 6:5; Eph. 6:17; 2 Thes. 2:8.
</p>

<p>
2:13. <hi rend='sans'>I know [thy works, and] where thou dwellest,
even where Satan's seat is.</hi>&mdash;<q>During this period, the true
Christians were tested and proved by the introduction
and development of Pagan and Papal ideas. The Pagan
priests, unwilling to lose their positions of honor and influence
amongst the people, while nominally professing Christianity,
brought their former ideas with them into the
Christian Church.</q> (Z. '16-346.) The word <emph>seat</emph> is rendered
<emph>throne</emph> in Lu. 1:32, and refers to Satan's <q>hellish parody of
the Heavenly Kingdom.</q>&mdash;Cook.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And thou holdest fast My name, and hast not denied My
faith, [even] in those days wherein Antipas was My faithful
martyr.</hi>&mdash;Throughout all the western part of Europe the
Bishop of Rome finally came to be called the <foreign rend='italic'>papa</foreign>, or
pope, or Father of the church. <q>Whoever denounced this
attempt to disobey the direct command of Jesus (Matt.
23:9), received the promised persecution. (2 Tim. 3:12.)
This class in Pergamos is commended by our Lord under
the symbol of <q>Anti-pas, My faithful martyr.</q> In Greek, <foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>anti-</foreign>
means against, and <foreign rend='italic'>papas</foreign> signifies father.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-347.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Who was slain among you, where Satan dwelleth.</hi>&mdash;We
can give but a partial list of the popes who served from
the condemnation of Arius to the end of the Pergamos
epoch; but it will be instructive to those who trust in
human ordination and are in sympathy with the efforts of
<pb n='033'/><anchor id='Pg033'/>
present-day clergy to get some of the special spirit that is
supposed to be imparted by the laying on of hands of these
<q>successors of St. Peter,</q> or those to whom they imparted
their <q>authority.</q> <q>Saint</q> Gregory I, pope 590-604 A. D.,
was the great-great-grandchild of Pope Felix II. When
Phocas murdered Emperor Maurice and ascended the
throne, Gregory wrote, <q>The Almighty has chosen you and
put you on the throne. Let the heavens rejoice, and let the
earth leap for joy.</q> Phocas was not ungrateful and in
return established the supremacy of the see of Rome over
all the other sees. Gregory was the discoverer of Purgatory,
it having been revealed to him by means of <q>apparitions</q>
and visions. See middle of page <ref target='Pg127'>127</ref>.
</p>

<p>
Honorius I, 625-638, has been condemned as having taught
a heresy <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>ex cathedra</foreign> (officially). The interest in this lies
in the fact that in 1870 the Vatican Council declared the
infallibility of all the popes in their <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>ex cathedra</foreign> utterances.
But the pope who declared Honorius a heretic did it <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>ex
cathedra</foreign> also. Hundreds of <q>learned</q> volumes have been
written in the effort to make this pretty snarl clear to the
Roman clergy. It is clear enough to others. <q>Saint</q>
Agathon, 678-682, claimed to be a miracle worker. He was
the infallible pope who denounced the doctrines taught by
infallible Honorius I. <q>Saint</q> Nicholas I, 858-867, <q>tamed
kings and tyrants, and ruled the world like a sovereign; to
the wicked and unconverted he was a terror.</q> So says a
Catholic historian. John VIII, 872-882, must have seriously
offended one of the <q>brethren</q> at the Vatican; for that dignitary
first tried to poison him, and as the poison did not
work quickly enough, he finished the job by breaking John's
head with a hammer. Stephen VII, 897-898, was offended
because his predecessor had at one time gotten the papal
throne away from him. Accordingly, his first act was to
cause the body of Pope Formosus to be exhumed, mutilated
and thrown into the Tiber. Subsequently one of the
<q>brethren</q> strangled him.
</p>

<p>
Christopher, 900-903, boldly deposed his predecessor, Leo
V, declaring him unfit to reign, which was doubtless true.
Leo died <q>of grief</q> in prison less than forty days after he
had ascended the throne. He probably had something
given him to help his grief along. Christopher himself was
murdered by <emph>his</emph> successor. Sergius III, 904-911, having
murdered Christopher, ascended the throne and emulated
the kings of earlier days. His concubine Marosia bore him
several children. John X, 915-928, and Leo VI, 928-929,
were both killed by Marosia, to make room for others in
whom she was interested. John XI, 931-936, was the son
of Marosia by Pope Sergius III. One of the <q>brethren</q>
<pb n='034'/><anchor id='Pg034'/>
poisoned him. John XII, 956-964, was murdered while in
the act of committing adultery. He was of licentious
habits, associating with women of every station, and filling
the Lateran with the noisy profanity of a brothel. Among
his mistresses was Joan, popularly known in history as
Pope Joan. She was a brilliant woman and actually exercised
the chief influence at Rome during John's pontificate.
Benedict VI, 972-973, was strangled or poisoned by one of
the <q>saints.</q> Boniface VII, 984-985, was elected just after
the tumult caused by the death of Benedict VI, but had to
leave town to escape a similar fate, on account of licentiousness
and cruelty. He remained away eleven years,
returned, put Pope John XIV in prison, starved him to
death and ascended the throne in his place.
</p>

<p>
Gregory V, 996-999, was poisoned by one of the <q>regularly
ordained</q> clergy. Benedict IX, 1033-1045, the boy pope
whose parents bought the popedom for him when he was
twelve years old, was the worst monster that ever held
the papal throne. Some, however, claim that honor for
Alexander VI, 1492-1503, who had seven acknowledged
bastards and many mistresses. Alexander tried to poison
nine cardinals at one sitting so that he could sell their
offices for the benefit of his brood; but a stupid servant
gave him the wrong glass and he departed this life ahead
of time. Benedict's vile conduct caused the Romans to
expel him from the city. Silvester III was regularly elected
to take his place; but after three months Benedict came
back and resumed control. Shortly afterward he sold the
popedom to Gregory VI, so that he might be free to marry
an Italian princess. At one time there were three popes
living in Rome contemporaneously, and the city was filled
with brawls and murders. A fourth, Clement II, was
elected, but after he had served nine months, a friend of
Gregory put something into his food besides the regular seasoning;
and he never awoke again. Thereupon Benedict
came back and reigned three years longer.
</p>

<p>
2:14. <hi rend='sans'>But I have a few things [against thee].</hi>&mdash;Against
the nominal church of the Pergamos epoch.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Because thou hast there them that hold the doctrine of
Balaam.</hi>&mdash;Balaam was a mouthpiece of the Lord, but unworthy.
He desired to curse God's true people, because of
the money there was in it, and finally seduced them by fornication
(symbolical of union of church and state). The
name Balaam means the same as <q>Nicolaitanes</q> (conquerors
of the people), and refers to the money-loving,
power-loving clergy. We have already noted the efforts to
obtain worldly power (spiritual fornication) which characterized
the Pergamos epoch. Its history also shows that the
<pb n='035'/><anchor id='Pg035'/>
clergy of that time were quite as fond of money as ever Balaam
was. John XX, 1024-1033, tried to sell the Roman primacy
over the Eastern church for a pecuniary consideration,
but failed to make the sale. <q>Benedict IX, when a boy
of twelve years (A. D. 1033), was elected pope <q><foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>intercedente
thesaurorum pecuniae</foreign></q></q>; i. e., his relatives provided the collateral
necessary to secure the office for him. Gregory VI,
who had had great repute for sanctity as a priest, obtained
the papal chair (A. D. 1044) by purchase from Benedict IX,
<q>who abdicated to marry a girl of noble family.</q> <q>At a
council at Lyons, the archbishop and forty-five bishops confessed
themselves simoniacal</q> (guilty of buying and selling
church offices). In the reign of Lucien II, 1144-1145, the
people, hoping for some relief from an intolerable condition,
paraded the streets of Rome with a banner, <q>Caesar
should have the things that are Caesar's and the priest the
things that are the priest's.</q> Lucien thought this was a
reflection upon himself, and went out in person to put
down the <q>revolution.</q> The people stoned him to death.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Who taught Balac to cast a stumbling-block before the
children of Israel.</hi>&mdash;<q>Guided by Balaam, King Balac communicated
with the leading people of the Midianites, and
urged that their wives and daughters should apparently
fall in love with the Israelites, and introduce them to the
sensuous religious rites practised by Midian. The scheme
was successful. Some of the leading wives and daughters
of the Midianites attracted some of the leading men of
Israel to adultery, and to idol worship and orgies.</q> (Z. '13-297;
Num. 24:14; 25:1; 31:16; 2 Pet. 2:15; Jude 11; 1 Cor.
10:8.) The words <q>cast a stumbling-block</q> are properly
rendered, in Rotherham's translation, <q>throw a snare.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To eat.</hi>&mdash;Appropriate to themselves as truths.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Things sacrificed unto idols.</hi>&mdash;Doctrines twisted, distorted
and mutilated to make them agree with creed-idols.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And to commit fornication.</hi>&mdash;<q>Papacy perceived its own
great power over the peoples of Europe, all of whom at
that time ignorantly and blindly acknowledged the Roman
Catholic faith. While the kings of Europe were comparatively
weak, the suggestion came, <q>Now it must be God's
time for setting up the Messianic Kingdom, because now
we have the power.</q> The answer of others was, <q>Not so.
The Bible teaches that Jesus will set up His own Kingdom
at His Second Advent in power and great glory, and that
the virgin Church will become His Bride and Joint-heir by
the power of the First Resurrection.</q> The answer to this
was, <q>So once we thought. But we have waited for the
coming of Messiah for over 800 years; and now we have
the thought that He probably wishes us to set up His
<pb n='036'/><anchor id='Pg036'/>
Kingdom for Him, and in His name to reign over the kings
of the earth.</q></q> (Z. '16-53.) <q>So these Pagan priests taught the
Church to indulge in spiritual fornication, and thus brought
upon her the withering blight of God's wrath.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-346.
</p>

<p>
2:15. <hi rend='sans'>So hast thou also them that hold the doctrine of
the Nicolaitanes, [which thing I hate] IN LIKE MANNER.</hi>&mdash;<q>The
<q>doctrine of the Nicolaitanes</q> (conquerors of the
people) seems to be the theory of lordship or headship in
the Church. (1 Pet. 5:3.) At their councils there was a
bitter fight for supremacy. It was settled only by a division
of the Church; the Eastern, or Greek Church, accepting
the Patriarch of Constantinople for its head; and the Western,
or Papal Church, acknowledging the Bishop&mdash;Pope or
Father&mdash;of Rome.</q> (Z. '16-346.) <q>The sins to which Balaam
allured Israel were a type of the sins to which the
doctrine of the Nicolaitanes now seduce thee.</q>&mdash;Cook.
</p>

<p>
2:16. <hi rend='sans'>Repent; or else I will come unto thee quickly.</hi>&mdash;Ere
you reach the earthly heights to which you aspire.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And will fight against them.</hi>&mdash;The unfaithful and unrepentant
church nominal.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>With the sword of My mouth.</hi>&mdash;With the Scriptures, in
the hands of a faithful servant. Such a servant came at
that very time, as we shall see.&mdash;2 Thes. 2:8; Heb. 4:12.
</p>

<p>
2:17. <hi rend='sans'>He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit
saith unto the churches.</hi>&mdash;Not many have had the <q>hearing
ear.</q> <q>There's just one here, one there.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To him that overcometh will I give [to eat] of the hidden
manna.</hi>&mdash;<q>Manna was the bread which came down from
heaven as a life-sustainer for Israel. It represented the living
bread, Christ Himself. One peculiarity of the golden
pot of manna <q>hidden</q> in the Tabernacle, marking it as the
same and yet different from that supplied to the Israelites
in general, was that it was <emph>incorruptible</emph>; hence it well
illustrates the immortal, incorruptible condition promised to
the Church.</q>&mdash;T. 122; Ex. 16:33, 34; Heb. 9:4; John 6:49, 50.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And [will give him] a white stone.</hi>&mdash;<q>In ancient times the
Greeks and the Romans had a custom of noting and perpetuating
friendship by means of a <emph>white stone</emph>. This stone
was divided into halves, and each person inscribed his
name on the flat surface, after which the parts of the stone
were exchanged. The production of either half was sufficient
to insure friendly aid. Thus the divided stone became
a mark of identification. There is an individual and personal
relationship between the Lord and the overcomers,
who may be said to receive the mark of identification&mdash;the
antitypical white stone&mdash;<emph>now</emph>, in this life. This mark is the
sealing of the Holy Spirit.</q>&mdash;Z. '12-315.
</p>

<pb n='037'/><anchor id='Pg037'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And in the stone a new name written, which no man
knoweth saving he that receiveth it.</hi>&mdash;The new name signifies
a new relationship to Jehovah.&mdash;Gen. 17:5, 15; 32:28.
</p>

<p>
2:18. <hi rend='sans'>And [unto] BY the angel.</hi>&mdash;The messenger to the
fourth epoch of the Church was Peter Waldo. <q rend='pre'>Peter, an
opulent merchant of Lyons, surnamed Valdensis, or Valdisius,
from Vaux, or Waldum, a town in the marquisate of
Lyons, being extremely zealous for the advancement of
true piety and Christian knowledge, employed a certain
priest, called Stephanus de Evisa, about the year 1160, in
translating, from Latin into French, the four Gospels,
with other books of Holy Scripture. But no sooner had
he perused these sacred books with a proper degree of
attention, than he perceived that the religion which was
now taught in the Roman church differed totally from
that which was originally inculcated by Christ and His
Apostles. Struck with this glaring contradiction between
the doctrines of the pontiffs and the truths of the Gospel,
and animated with zeal, he abandoned his mercantile
vocation, distributed his riches among the poor (whence
the Waldenses were called poor men of Lyons), and forming
an association with other pious men who had adopted
his sentiments and his turn of devotion, he began to assume
the quality of a public teacher, and to instruct the
multitude in the doctrines and precepts of Christianity.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Soon after Peter had assumed the exercise of his ministry,
the archbishop of Lyons, and the other rulers of the
church in that province, vigorously opposed him. However,
their opposition was unsuccessful; for the purity
and simplicity of that religion which these good men
taught, the spotless innocence that shone forth in their
lives and actions, and the noble contempt of riches and
honors which was conspicuous in the whole of their conduct
and conversation, appeared so engaging to all such
as had any sense of true piety, that the number of their
followers daily increased. They accordingly formed religious
assemblies, first in France, and afterwards in Lombardy;
from whence they propagated their sect throughout
the other provinces of Europe with incredible rapidity,
and with such invincible fortitude that neither fire nor
sword, nor the most cruel inventions of merciless persecution,
could damp their zeal, or entirely ruin their cause.
All they aimed at was to reduce the form of ecclesiastical
government, and the manners both of the clergy and the
people, to that amiable simplicity and primitive sanctity
which characterized the Apostolic ages, and which appear
so strongly recommended in the precepts and injunctions
of the Divine Author of our holy religion.</q>
</p>

<pb n='038'/><anchor id='Pg038'/>

<p>
<q>In consequence of this design, they complained that
the Roman church had degenerated from its primitive
purity and sanctity. They denied the supremacy of the
Roman pontiff, and maintained that the rulers and ministers
of the Church were obliged, by their vocation, to imitate
the poverty of the Apostles and to procure for themselves
a subsistence by the work of their hands. They
considered every Christian as, in a certain measure, qualified
and authorized to instruct, exhort and confirm the
brethren in their Christian course. They at the same
time affirmed that confession made to priests was by no
means necessary, since the humble offender might acknowledge
his sins and testify his repentance to any true
believer, and might expect from such the counsel and
admonition which his case demanded. They maintained
that the power of delivering sinners from the guilt and
punishment of their offenses belonged to God alone; and
that indulgences in consequence were the criminal invention
of sordid avarice. They looked upon the prayers
and other ceremonies that were instituted in behalf
of the dead, as vain, useless, and absurd, and denied the
existence of departed souls in an intermediate state of
purification. It is also said that several of the Waldenses
denied the obligation of infant baptism. They adopted
as the model of their moral discipline Christ's sermon on
the mount, which they interpreted and explained in the
most rigorous and literal manner; and consequently prohibited
and condemned in their society all wars, and suits
of law, and all attempts toward the acquisition of wealth.</q>&mdash;Buck.
</p>

<p>
<q>Waldo's translation of the four gospels into French
was the first appearance of the Scriptures in any modern
language. The possession of these books soon discovered
to Waldo that the Church was never designed to be dependent
on a priesthood, even for the administration of the
sacraments; and he became so obnoxious to the church
that he was anathematized by the pope. No longer safe
in Lyons, Waldo and his friends took refuge in the mountains,
and there formed those communities from which
the simple doctrines of Christianity flowed out all over
Europe. Provence, Languedoc, Flanders, Germany, one
after another tasted of the refreshing waters. Waldo
traveled in Picardy, teaching his reformation doctrines,
hundreds of years before Luther was born. He finally settled
in Bohemia, where he died in 1179, the same year in
which his tenets were denounced by an ecumenical council.
The Waldensian Church was a light on the mountains
during the Dark Ages.</q>&mdash;McC.
</p>

<pb n='039'/><anchor id='Pg039'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the church in Thyatira.</hi>&mdash;<q>Thyatira seems to mean
<q>the sweet perfume of sacrifice.</q> It was the period of
Papal persecution.</q> (Z. '16-347.) From the time of Peter
Waldo's witness in 1160 until the next special messenger
to the Church appeared, 1378, was a period of 218 years.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Write.</hi>&mdash;The first translation of the Bible into a modern
language&mdash;French&mdash;was the work of Waldo.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>These things saith the Son of God, who hath His eyes
like unto a flame of fire.</hi>&mdash;<q>To watch over His faithful
ones as they wandered through the dark valleys or hid in
the darker caves of earth.</q> (Z. '16-347; Rev. 1:14.) His
eyes search out every secret thought.&mdash;Rev. 2:23.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And His feet are like fine brass.</hi>&mdash;<q>To walk by their side
as they scaled the rugged mountains or wandered footsore
and weary, seeking a place to plant the seeds of
Truth.</q> (Z. '16-347; Rev. 1:15.) His feet <q>trample to
fragments everything impure.</q>&mdash;Cook.
</p>

<p>
2:19. <hi rend='sans'>I know thy works.</hi>&mdash;The Lord remembers that
Peter Waldo was the first to translate His Word into a
modern language.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And charity, [and service,] and faith, and [thy] patience,
and thy works.</hi>&mdash;The Lord remembers that Peter
Waldo literally <q>sold all that he had and gave to the
[Lord's] poor.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[And] thy last works to be more than the first.</hi>&mdash;(Diaglott.)
<q>So general and widespread became the so-called
heresy that Innocent III determined to crush it out&mdash;<q>exterminate
the whole pestilential race</q> was the language
of which he made use. The commission he gave to the
authorities was to burn the chief of the Vaudois (Waldenses),
to scatter the heretics themselves, confiscating their
property, and consigning to perdition every soul who
dared to oppose the pope. Joined with <q>His Holiness</q> in
his relentless persecution of the Waldenses was Dominic,
the father of the Inquisition. Such has been the history
of the Waldenses all through the ages&mdash;subject to untold
suffering from persecution; then enjoying, in the quiet
valleys of Piedmont, comparative tranquility for a time;
then assailed by their ever-relentless foe, the Roman
Catholic Church, which has spared no pains, by fire and
slaughter, and the horrors of the Inquisition, to put an
end to the unfortunate victims of their violence.</q> (McC.)
How evident it is that the followers of Peter Waldo have
given a larger witness by their sufferings (their <q>last
works</q>) than they did by the first works (the translation
of the Gospel into French)!
</p>

<p>
2:20. <hi rend='sans'>Notwithstanding I have [a few things] MUCH
against thee.</hi>&mdash;The fourth epoch of the church nominal.
</p>

<pb n='040'/><anchor id='Pg040'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[Because] THAT thou sufferest that woman Jezebel</hi>.&mdash;The
Roman Catholic Church, as shown in parallel below:
</p>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{3.5cm} p{3.5cm}'; tblcolumns: 'lw(30) lw(30)'">
<row><cell><q rend='pre'>Elijah was persecuted
for fidelity to truth and
righteousness.</q></cell><cell><q rend='pre'>The Church was persecuted
for fidelity to truth
and righteousness.</q></cell></row>
<row><cell></cell><cell></cell></row>
<row><cell><q rend='pre'>His principal persecutor
was Jezebel, the wicked
queen of Israel, who is mentioned
by name as the type
of the enemy of the saints.&mdash;Rev.
2:20; 2 Kings 9:7.</q></cell><cell><q rend='pre'>The principal persecutor
was the apostate Church
of Rome, which claims to
be a <q>queen</q> and ruler over
Spiritual Israel.&mdash;Rev. 18:7.</q></cell></row>
<row><cell></cell><cell></cell></row>
<row><cell><q rend='pre'>Jezebel's persecuting
power was exercised
through her husband, Ahab,
the king.&mdash;1 Kings 21:25.</q></cell><cell><q rend='pre'>Papacy's persecuting
power was exercised
through the Roman Empire,
to which she was joined.</q></cell></row>
<row><cell></cell><cell></cell></row>
<row><cell><q rend='pre'>Elijah fled from Jezebel
and Ahab into the wilderness,
to a place prepared of
God, where he was miraculously
nourished.&mdash;1 Kings
17:5-9.</q></cell><cell><q rend='pre'>The true Church fled into
the symbolic wilderness&mdash;or
condition of isolation&mdash;to
her place, prepared of
God, where she was sustained.&mdash;Rev.
12:6, 16.</q></cell></row>
<row><cell></cell><cell></cell></row>
<row><cell><q rend='pre'>Elijah was <q>three years
and six months</q> in the wilderness,
and during that
time there was no rain, and
a great famine was in the
land.&mdash;James 5:17; 1 Kings
17:7; 18:2.</q></cell><cell><q rend='pre'>The Church was three
and a half symbolic years
(a day for a year&mdash;1260 literal
years) in the wilderness
condition, during
which there was a spiritual
famine because of the lack
of Truth&mdash;the living water.&mdash;Rev.
12:6; 11:3; Amos 8:11.</q></cell></row>
<row><cell></cell><cell></cell></row>
<row><cell><q rend='pre'>After the three and a
half years, 1260 days, when
Elijah returned from the
wilderness, the errors of
Jezebel's priests were manifested,
the true God was
honored, and copious rains
followed.&mdash;1 Kings 18:41-45.</q></cell><cell><q>At the end of the 1260
years the power of the
Truth and its witnesses was
manifested (A. D. 1799);
and since then the Truth has
flowed at the rate of millions
of Bibles every year, refreshing
the world and bringing
forth fruit.</q>&mdash;B. 256.</cell></row>
</table>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which [calleth herself] SAITH SHE IS a prophetess</hi>.&mdash;Claims
to be an infallible teacher, but really has no right
to teach at all&mdash;<q>I suffer not a woman [a church] to teach,
<pb n='041'/><anchor id='Pg041'/>
nor to usurp authority over the man [Christ].</q> (1 Tim.
2:12; 1 Cor. 14:34; F. 270.) <q>False prophecy, fornication
and idolatry are symbolized by the woman Jezebel.</q>
(Cook.) Jezebel was a prophetess of Baal.&mdash;1 Ki. 16:31-33;
21:25.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[To teach and to seduce] AND TEACHETH AND SEDUCETH
My servants to commit fornication.</hi>&mdash;Union of
church and state.&mdash;Rev. 2:14; 2 Ki. 9:22; 1 Cor. 14:34.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And to eat things sacrificed unto idols.</hi>&mdash;Reverence the
creed-idols set up by the various ecumenical councils.&mdash;Rev.
2:14.
</p>

<p>
2:21. <hi rend='sans'>And I gave her space.</hi>&mdash;<foreign rend='italic'>Chronos</foreign>, a <q>time,</q> 360
years. As noted in comments on 2:20, the prophetic
<q>time, times and a half a time,</q> or three and a half times,
or three and a half years, or forty and two months, or
1260 days, represent 1260 years. A single <foreign rend='italic'>chronos</foreign> or
<q>time,</q> therefore, represents 360 years.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To repent [of her fornication].</hi>&mdash;Of her unfaithfulness to
the Lord. During all this time <q>the virgin Church was
enduring the hardships of the wilderness; while the apostate
Church sat on the throne of her royal paramour.</q>&mdash;Z.
'16-347.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And she [repented not] WILL NOT REPENT OF THIS
FORNICATION.</hi>&mdash;The Lord foreknew that after 360 years
more of living with the kings of earth, and endeavoring
to gain dominion over them, the Roman Catholic Church
would be unrepentant. The 360 years from Waldo's message
in 1160 ended in 1520. Luther's 95 theses were placed
on the church doors at Wittenberg October 31, 1517.
<q>These he proposed not as points fully established, but as
subjects of inquiry and disputation. The learned were invited
to impugn them, either in person or by writing; and
to the whole he subjoined solemn protestations of his high
respect for the apostolic see, and of his implicit submission
to his authority. No opponent appeared at the time
prefixed; the theses spread over Germany with astonishing
rapidity, and were read with the greatest eagerness.</q>
(Buck.) Luther was summoned in July, 1518, to appear at
Rome within sixty days. He wrote a submissive letter to the
pope, requesting a trial in Germany. Meantime the German
Emperor died; and the pope, absorbed in the choice
of a new emperor, paid little heed to the Luther controversy.
</p>

<p>
<q>From the reason just now given, a suspension of proceeding
against Luther took place for eighteen months,
though perpetual negotiations were carried on. The manner
in which these were conducted having given our reformer
many opportunities of observing the corruption of
<pb n='042'/><anchor id='Pg042'/>
the court of Rome, its obstinacy in adhering to established
errors, and its indifference about truth, he began in 1520
to utter some doubts with regard to the Divine origin of
the papal authority, which he publicly disputed with
Eccius, one of his most learned and formidable antagonists.
The papal authority being once suspected, Luther
proceeded to push on his inquiries and attacks from one
doctrine to another, till at last he began to shake the
foundations on which the wealth and power of the church
were established. Leo then began to perceive that there
were no hopes of reclaiming such an incorrigible heretic,
and therefore prepared to pronounce the sentence of excommunication
against him. The college of cardinals was
often assembled, in order to prepare the sentence with
due deliberation; and the ablest canonists were consulted
how it might be expressed with unexceptionable formality.
At last it was issued, on the 15th of June, 1520. Forty-one
propositions, extracted out of Luther's works, were therein
condemned as heretical, scandalous, and offensive to
pious ears; all persons were forbidden to read his writings,
upon pain of excommunication; such as had any of
them in their custody were commanded to commit them
to the flames; he himself, if he did not within sixty days
publicly recant his errors, and burn his books, was pronounced
an obstinate heretic, excommunicated, and delivered
to Satan for the destruction of the flesh; and all secular
princes were required, under pain of incurring the
same censure, to seize his person, that he might be punished
as his crimes deserved.</q> (Buck.) With the excommunication
of Luther, <q>the fat was in the fire</q>; and it
was useless for the Roman Catholic Church to try to stem
the tide of the Reformation. Her period for repentance
ended with the <q>chronos,</q> 360 years, June 15, 1520.&mdash;See
3d paragraph, page <ref target='Pg041'>41</ref>.
</p>

<p>
2:22. <hi rend='sans'>Behold, I will cast her into a bed.</hi>&mdash;Not a bed of
ease, but a bed of pain. See Diaglott. There where she
sinned she shall suffer.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And them that commit adultery with her.</hi>&mdash;All the
powers that receive her legates or that maintain representatives
at the Vatican. Knowing her character, they
are equally guilty.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Into great tribulation.</hi>&mdash;They are getting some now, and
will get more soon.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Except they repent of [their] HER deeds.</hi>&mdash;This teaches
that the present situation in Europe is the direct result of
the teachings of the Roman Catholic Church.
</p>

<p>
2:23. <hi rend='sans'>And I will kill her children.</hi>&mdash;<q>Both Romanists
and Protestants now freely own the relationship of mother
<pb n='043'/><anchor id='Pg043'/>
and daughters, the former continually styling herself the
Holy Mother Church, and the latter, with pleased complacency,
endorsing the idea.</q>&mdash;D. 28; Isa. 57:3, 4. See p. <ref target='Pg111'>111</ref>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>With death.</hi>&mdash;<q>They shall be as though they had not
been.</q>&mdash;Obad. 16.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And all the churches shall know.</hi>&mdash;When their secrets
are laid bare by the unfolding of the deep things of God's
Word.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That I am He which searcheth the reins and hearts.</hi>&mdash;In
olden times the mind was supposed to be located in the
reins (kidneys); and the prophecy assumes the same position.
Thus David says, <q>My reins also instruct me in the
night seasons</q>; <q>In the night his song shall be with me.</q>
(Psa. 16:7; 42:8.) <q>My reins within me are consumed
with earnest desire for that day.</q> (Job 19:27, margin.)
The metaphor is appropriate to the theme.&mdash;Psa. 7:9; Jer.
11:20; 17:10; 20:12.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And I will give unto every one of you according to your
works.</hi>&mdash;The light of Truth blazes most fiercely against
the ecclesiastical organizations whose offenses have been
greatest. As for the Papacy, <q>her sins have reached unto
heaven, and God hath remembered her iniquities.</q>&mdash;Rev.
18:5, 6; Matt. 7:16, 20.
</p>

<p>
2:24. <hi rend='sans'>But unto you I say [and unto] the rest in Thyatira.</hi>&mdash;Waldenses
and others outside of the Papal system.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>As many as have not this doctrine.</hi>&mdash;Spiritual fornication,
mixture of church and state, the special subject of
the message to Thyatira.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[And] which have not known.</hi>&mdash;Comprehended, realized,
entered into.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The depths of Satan.</hi>&mdash;Rome, pagan and papal.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>As they speak.</hi>&mdash;<q>So to say,</q> i. e., <q>Satan</q> is a name
applicable to Rome, as describing its characteristics.&mdash;Rev.
2:10.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>I will put upon you none other burden.</hi>&mdash;The Lord only
requires of His people obedience to the light due.&mdash;1 John
1:7.
</p>

<p>
2:25. <hi rend='sans'>But that which ye have already.</hi>&mdash;The truths described
in 2:18.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Hold fast till I come.</hi>&mdash;Some of the light which shone
upon the Waldensians has never been entirely extinguished.
</p>

<p>
2:26. <hi rend='sans'>And he that overcometh.</hi>&mdash;Effectually resists efforts
to entice him into disloyalty to the Lord.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And keepeth My works unto the end.</hi>&mdash;Continues in the
faith (John 6:29; 1 John 3:23), despite the unions of
church and state. Christ's works are opposite to Jezebel's.&mdash;Rev.
2:22.
</p>

<pb n='044'/><anchor id='Pg044'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To him will I give THE power [over] OF the nations.</hi>&mdash;How
like our God! The sacrificed Christ gets the very
prize for which Satan aspired.&mdash;Isa. 14:13, 14; 1 Cor. 6:2,
3; Rev. 3:21; 5:10; Psa. 149:5-9.
</p>

<p>
2:27. <hi rend='sans'>And he shall rule them with a rod of Iron.</hi>&mdash;<q>God's
Kingdom will not be established by a vote of the
people, nor by the vote of the aristocracy and rulers. He
<q>whose right it is,</q> He who bought it with His own precious
blood, will <q><emph>take</emph> the Kingdom,</q> will <q>take unto Himself
His great power and reign.</q></q> (D. 518). <q>The nations
will be ruled by irresistible force&mdash;<q>every knee shall bow,
every tongue shall confess</q>&mdash;and obedience will be compulsory.</q>
(D. 636.) <q>In His day the humble and righteous,
and they only, shall flourish. (Isa. 28:17; Rom. 14:11;
Psa. 92:12, 13.</q>&mdash;C. 369.) <q>The only liberty that will be
granted to any will be the true and glorious liberty of the
sons of God&mdash;liberty to do good to themselves and others
in any and in every way; but nothing will be allowed to
injure or destroy in all that Holy Kingdom. (Isa. 11:9;
Rom. 8:21.) Because of its firmness and vigor, it is symbolically
called an iron rule.</q>&mdash;A. 302; Rev. 19:15.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>As the vessels of a potter shall they be broken to
shivers.</hi>&mdash;<q>The stone cut out of the mountain without
hands, which smites and scatters the Gentile powers, represents
the true Church, the Kingdom of God. Not the
people, but the governments, are symbolized by the
image, and these are to be destroyed that the people may
be delivered. Our Lord Jesus came not to destroy men's
lives, but to save them. (John 3:17.) The stone does not
become the mountain until it has smitten the image; and
so the Church, in the full sense, will become the Kingdom
when <q>the day of the Lord,</q> the <q>day of wrath upon
the nations,</q> will be over.</q> (A. 255.) <q>This smiting and
breaking properly belongs to the Day of Vengeance, and
though the power and rod will still remain throughout the
Millennial Age, their use will probably be unnecessary.</q>&mdash;D.
637; Psa. 2:9; Dan. 7:22.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Even as I received of My Father.</hi>&mdash;The Father (Justice)
decrees their unworthiness to continue longer. Their iniquity
is come to the full. Four hundred years from October
31, 1517, end Oct. 31, 1917.&mdash;Rev. 2:21; Gen. 15:13-16.
</p>

<p>
2:28. <hi rend='sans'>And I will give him the Morning Star.</hi>&mdash;<q>I am the
bright and morning star.</q>&mdash;Rev. 22:16; Matt. 13:43.
</p>

<p>
2:29. <hi rend='sans'>He that hath an ear.</hi>&mdash;An ear attuned to the
Harp Divine.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches.</hi>&mdash;Not
many are able to appreciate the sweet old <q>song of
Moses and the Lamb</q> when they hear it.&mdash;Rev. 15:3.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='045'/><anchor id='Pg045'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Revelation 3&mdash;Wycliffe, Luther And Russell</head>

<p>
3:1. <hi rend='sans'>And [unto] BY the angel.</hi>&mdash;The next important
messenger to the Church was John Wycliffe. <q>It was in
1378 A. D., the year of the <q>Great Schism of the West,</q>
when two popes were elected, one in Rome and the other
in Avignon, that Wycliffe came out as the great Doctrinal
Reformer. Workman, in <hi rend='italic'>Dawn of the Reformation</hi>,
writes: <q>Wycliffe's spiritual earnestness was shocked, his
theory destroyed by the spectacle of two popes, each
claiming to be the sole head of the Church, each labeling
the other as Antichrist. To Wycliffe, the year of the
Schism, 1378, was the crucial year of his life. He first
urged that both popes should be set aside as having little
in common with the Church of the Holy God. From this
position of neutrality he quickly passed into one of antagonism
to the Papacy itself.</q> In his <hi rend='italic'>Mediaeval Church History</hi>,
Archbishop Trench says: <q>The year 1378 marked
the turning-point in Wycliffe's career. Hitherto he had
concerned himself with matters of mixed ecclesiastical and
political import, but henceforth he devoted himself exclusively
to doctrinal matters and came out as the Reformer.
He began in earnest the translation of the Bible into English,
and took the next decisive step by an open attack,
forced upon him by his studies of the Bible, against
Transubstantiation.</q> Wycliffe thus attacked the very bulwark
of Antichrist's stronghold, for the doctrine of Transubstantiation,
or the sacrifice of the Mass, annulled the
true sacrifice of Christ. Because of this, the Papal system
became in God's sight the <q>desolating abomination.</q>
(Dan. 11:31.)</q>&mdash;Edgar.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the church in Sardis.</hi>&mdash;<q>Sardis is said to mean that
which remains, as if it signified something out of which
life or virtue had gone. The nominal church during this
period had a form of godliness without its power. Sardis
was the remains of the true Church, which had been
driven into the wilderness; but when the persecution began
to subside, her zeal also abated.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-347.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Write.</hi>&mdash;Wycliffe wrote the first translation of the Bible
into English.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>These things saith He that hath the seven Spirits of
God.</hi>&mdash;The seven lamps of fire (Rev. 4:5), or seven eyes
<pb n='046'/><anchor id='Pg046'/>
sent forth into all the earth (Rev. 5:6); i. e., perfect
knowledge.&mdash;Rev. 1:4.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the seven stars.</hi>&mdash;How each of the Lord's messengers
was kept! St. Paul had (supposedly) eight years of
liberty after his first imprisonment, planted the Gospel in
Spain and revisited the scenes of earlier labors; St. John
is said to have been thrown into a caldron of boiling oil,
but escaped unharmed and died of old age; Arius died
a natural death; as did Peter Waldo, John Wycliffe, Martin
Luther and Charles T. Russell, although all had reason
to expect martyrdom at the hands of ecclesiasticism. The
year that Peter Waldo died, his tenets were condemned
by an ecumenical council. <q>Wycliffe preached unmolested;
but the Council of Constance (May 5, 1415) condemned
his doctrines, and in 1428 his remains were dug
up and burned; the ashes were cast into the adjoining
Swift, which, as Wordsworth poetically remarked, conveyed
them through the Avon and the Severn into the
sea, and thus disseminated them over the world. His doctrines,
carried into Bohemia, originated the Hussite movement.
The New Testament was published about 1378, and
the entire Old Testament was completed shortly before
his death.</q>&mdash;McC.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>I know thy works, that thou hast a name that thou
livest.</hi>&mdash;Many who admired Wycliffe were not real Christians.
A man not willing to go to the stake for his religion
has none.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And art dead.</hi>&mdash;Spiritually.&mdash;Luke 9:60.
</p>

<p>
3:2. <hi rend='sans'>Be watchful, and strengthen the things which remain,
that [are] WERE ready to die.</hi>&mdash;Many among
Wycliffe's admirers lost faith and love, and to that degree
died, while others had some spiritual life. These the
Lord desired to awaken, to strengthen, to encourage.&mdash;Eph.
5:14.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For I have not found thy works perfect before MY God.</hi>&mdash;Revised
Version reads, <q>For I have found no works of
thine fulfilled before My God.</q>
</p>

<p>
3:3. <hi rend='sans'>Remember [therefore] how thou hast received.</hi>&mdash;Received
the entire Word in the English tongue.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And heard.</hi>&mdash;Wycliffe was the author of more than 200
works, chiefly tracts, on the Ransom.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And hold fast, and reform.</hi>&mdash;(Diaglott.) Had Wycliffe's
labors been properly appreciated, the Reformation would
have been set forward 150 years.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>If therefore thou shalt not [watch] REPENT.</hi>&mdash;Change
your course of conduct.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>I will come on thee as a thief.</hi>&mdash;<q>Many today have the
Sardis characteristics. To such this is a warning. Seven
<pb n='047'/><anchor id='Pg047'/>
times our Lord's Second Coming is described as being
thief-like, stealthy. Those who are asleep will be awakened
only after His work of destruction has progressed.
His presence will be recognized by the sleepers only as
the noise of spoiling the Strong Man's House gradually
increases.</q> (Z. '16-347; 1 Thes. 5:2; Matt. 24:43; 2 Pet.
3:10.) <q>The stealthiness of the thief, not the violence of
the robber, is implied in the original.</q>&mdash;Cook.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And thou shalt not know what hour I will come upon
thee.</hi>&mdash;<q>Failing to realize the fact that spiritual bodies
cannot be seen by human eyes without a miracle, some
cannot understand how He can be present while <q>all
things continue as they were since the beginning of creation.</q>
(2 Pet. 3:3, 4.) Thus they are unable to understand
the signs of the times' revealing His return.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-347.
</p>

<p>
3:4. <hi rend='sans'>BUT thou hast a few names [even] in Sardis which
have not defiled their garments.</hi>&mdash;But have given due heed
to the Message of the hour, the Ransom.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And they shall walk with Me In white.</hi>&mdash;Fully covered
by the robe of Christ's righteousness.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For they are worthy.</hi>&mdash;None who trust in sacrifices of
the Mass or in other sacrifices than that of Calvary, can
ever be worthy in God's sight.&mdash;Matt. 10:37.
</p>

<p>
3:5. <hi rend='sans'>He that overcometh, [the same] THUS.</hi>&mdash;The test,
apparently, was on the question of transubstantiation.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Shall be clothed in white raiment.</hi>&mdash;<q>The pictures given
of the Heavenly Father represent <emph>Him</emph> as clothed (Psa.
104:2); and the pictures of our Lord represent <emph>Him</emph> as
clothed. The angels who appeared at the time of our
Lord's resurrection are represented as clothed in white.
Our Lord said: <q>Blessed is he that watcheth, and keepeth
his garments, lest he walk naked, and they see his
shame.</q> (Rev. 16:15.) The glorified Church is represented,
not as taking off the robe of righteousness, but
continuing to walk in white raiment, not as now, in a robe
of reckoned righteousness, but in a robe of actual righteousness.</q>&mdash;Z. '14-11;
Rev. 19:8.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And I will not blot out his name out of the Book of Life.</hi>&mdash;<q>In
the book are written the names of all those who
have made with the Lord <q>a Covenant by Sacrifice.</q> The
name of each of these is entered in the Lamb's Book of
Life, when he starts to live the new life. If they are
faithful, their names will not be blotted out; and they will
attain all those glorious things which are promised to
those who love Him supremely. (Rev. 3:21.)</q>&mdash;Z. '15-119;
Rev. 13:8; Psa. 69:28; Dan. 12:1; Phil. 4:3; Lu. 10:20.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>But I will confess his name before My Father, and before
His angels.</hi>&mdash;<q>In the end, the overcomers will each
<pb n='048'/><anchor id='Pg048'/>
be so grandly developed that the Lord will not be ashamed
to confess any of them and to say, <q>Here is one of My
followers. Here is another. They have walked in My
footsteps and have overcome.</q> But He will be ashamed
of any who are ashamed of Him or of His words. (Luke
9:26.)</q>&mdash;Z. '15-119; Luke 12:8, 9.
</p>

<p>
3:6. <hi rend='sans'>He that hath an ear.</hi>&mdash;A spiritual ear. <q>My sheep
hear My voice.</q>&mdash;John 10:27.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches.</hi>&mdash;<q>Blessed
are the people that know the joyful sound.</q>&mdash;Psa.
89:15.
</p>

<p>
3:7. <hi rend='sans'>And [to] BY the angel.</hi>&mdash;The next messenger to
the Church was Martin Luther. <q>There is considerable
similarity between the work begun on Pentecost and that
of Luther. The Reformation was, in a sense, the beginning
of a new era, a dawning of light where all had been
darkness, a new start in the way of Truth.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-347.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the church in Philadelphia.</hi>&mdash;<q>Philadelphia means
brotherly love. This stage of the Church's history began
at the Reformation; and there are many still living who
possess the characteristics described.</q> (Z. '16-347.) The
exact point of time at which the Philadelphia epoch of
the Church began was at midday, October 31, 1517. It
was at that hour that Luther nailed his ninety-five theses
on the church door at Wittenberg. <q>Nailing up that paper
was the beginning of a great division in the Church; of
thrones tumbled into the dust and kings with them; of
empires rent asunder; of lands desolated by war; of
massacres and horrible outrages against the lives and
liberties of men; of thirty years continuous war in Germany;
of Paris and the vine-clad valleys of Italy drenched
in blood; of fires kindled all over England for the burning
of men, women and children; of men hurled headlong from
precipices, roasted over slow fires, starving in dungeons,
subjected to every form of cruelty&mdash;but with all this,
the advance of justice, truth and liberty, the beginning of
a new era in human affairs.</q> (Coffin.) <q>The theses ran
through all Germany in fourteen days, for all the world
was complaining about the indulgences; and Luther became
renowned, because at last somebody had come who
took hold of the thing.</q>&mdash;McC.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Write.</hi>&mdash;Luther wrote the first translation of the Bible
into German.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>These things saith He that is [holy] TRUE.</hi>&mdash;The direct
reference is to Christ (1 John 5:20); but characteristic of
Luther was his great love of truth. When the Papal legate
came demanding that he recant, he replied, <q>I stand
by the truth. I will not take it back.</q>
</p>

<pb n='049'/><anchor id='Pg049'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>He that it [true] HOLY.</hi>&mdash;See Mark 1:24. Luther's special
message was <q>Justification by faith</q>&mdash;<emph>real</emph> holiness.
One of the theses on the door was, <q>Those who truly repent
of their sins have a full remission of guilt and
penalty.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>He that hath the key of David.</hi>&mdash;<q>All power in Heaven
and earth.</q> (Matt. 28:18; Luke 1:32.) Luther's theses
were antagonistic to the system actually ruling all over
the world. When a representative came warning that his
death would surely follow failure to recant, and asking
him where he could go when all had orders not to harbor
him, he replied, <q>I will abide under the cope of heaven.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[He] AND that openeth.</hi>&mdash;See Luke 24:32.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And no man [shutteth] SHALL SHUT.</hi>&mdash;<q>No doubt all
the powers of Satan were exerted to close the door then
opened; but <q>He that is true</q> had said, <q>which no man
can shut.</q></q>&mdash;Z. '16-347; Isa. 22:22.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And shutteth and no man [openeth] SHALL OPEN.</hi>&mdash;The
door of opportunity for the Roman Catholic Church
to repent swung shut the day Luther was excommunicated.
(Rev. 2:21.) <q>Luther was not in the least disconcerted
by this sentence, which he had for some time expected.
He renewed his appeal to the general council;
declared the pope to be that Antichrist or Man of
Sin whose appearance is foretold in the New Testament;
declaimed against his tyranny with greater
vehemence than ever; and at last having assembled the
University he cast the canon law, together with the bull of
excommunication, into the flames.</q>&mdash;Buck.
</p>

<p>
3:8. <hi rend='sans'>I know thy works.</hi>&mdash;A striking feature of Luther's
character was his promptness to do whatever he saw to
be the Lord's will. When the great test came, Luther said
to Erasmus: <q>You desire to walk upon eggs without
crushing them.</q> Erasmus replied: <q>I will not be unfaithful
to the cause of Christ at least so far as the Age
will permit me.</q> <q>I will go to Worms,</q> shouted Luther,
<q>though the devils were combined against me as thick as
tiles upon the housetops!</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Behold I have set before thee an open door.</hi>&mdash;See 1 Cor.
16:9; Acts 14:27.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[And] WHICH no man can shut [it].</hi>&mdash;<q>While the
Roman pontiff thought everything safe and settled, and
all pious and good men were nearly in despair of the religious
reformation, so earnestly desired, a certain obscure
and inconsiderable monk in Saxony, a province of
Germany, suddenly opposed himself single-handed with
incredible resolution to the power of Rome. This was
Martin Luther.</q>&mdash;Mosheim.
</p>

<pb n='050'/><anchor id='Pg050'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For thou hast a little strength.</hi>&mdash;<q>Compared with the
mighty hosts of their enemies, the little band of Reformers
had but <q>a little strength;</q> but they knew that they
had the Truth, and they fully trusted the Giver.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-347.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And hast kept My Word.</hi>&mdash;<q>Whoso keepeth His Word,
in him verily is the love of God perfected.</q>&mdash;1 John 2:5.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And hast not denied My name.</hi>&mdash;<q>If we deny Him, He
also will deny us.</q>&mdash;2 Tim. 2:12.
</p>

<p>
3:9. <hi rend='sans'>Behold I [will make] HAVE MADE them of the
synagogue of Satan.</hi>&mdash;The opponents of the reformers
were <emph>already</emph> of the synagogue of Satan.&mdash;Rev. 2:13.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which say they are Jews.</hi>&mdash;Claim to be Israelites indeed,
saints.&mdash;Rev. 2:9.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And are not, but do lie.</hi>&mdash;Papacy is one of the two
systems of rulership (imperial power being the other)
congenitally <q>spotted like a leopard,</q> as far as the Truth
is concerned.&mdash;Dan. 11:27; Rev. 13:2.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Behold I will make them to come.</hi>&mdash;<q>All nations whom
Thou hast made shall come.</q>&mdash;Psa. 86:9.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And worship before thy feet.</hi>&mdash;<q>The sons also of them
that afflicted thee shall come bending unto thee; and all
that despised thee shall bow themselves down at the
soles of thy feet.</q>&mdash;Isa. 60:14; 49:23.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And [to] THOU SHALT know that I have loved thee.</hi>&mdash;See
Eph. 2:7.
</p>

<p>
3:10. <hi rend='sans'>Because thou hast kept the word of My patience.</hi>&mdash;My
patience-enjoining word.&mdash;Matt. 10:22; Lu. 8:15.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>I also will keep thee.</hi>&mdash;<q>As to the Philadelphia stage of
the Church, and their being saved from the hour of temptation,
we think possibly the Lord meant that some of the
Church of that epoch would live over into the present
period, and that they would not be subjected to the special
trials of this hour. For instance, we think of a very
fine old gentleman, who was about ninety years of age at
the time we are about to mention. He was pastor of a
church. He seemed to receive Present Truth with a great
deal of joy and spoke it forth with much zeal. But he
was surrounded with so much opposition at home, and in
the church to which he was attached as a minister, that
he could not seem to trust to his mental judgment. This
Scripture which we are considering has rather comforted
our mind with respect to him and others like him.</q>&mdash;Z. '15-200.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>From the hour of temptation.</hi>&mdash;<q><q>The hour of temptation</q>
has been the Harvest time. The majority of professing
Christians of the world&mdash;probably more than three-fourths&mdash;have
lost all faith in the Bible, and fallen into
<pb n='051'/><anchor id='Pg051'/>
Evolution, Higher Criticism, Christian Science, Theosophy,
Spiritism, New Thought, etc. They are not able to stand
in this <q>evil day.</q></q> (Z'15-199.) Additionally, <q>so far as we
are able to judge, the same conditions prevail today
amongst Bible students which the Apostle pointed out to
the Elders of the Church of Ephesus. (Acts 20:28-32.)</q>&mdash;Z. '16-328.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which shall come upon all the world.</hi>&mdash;<q>We believe that
this temptation to headiness and strife is spreading gradually
in every direction; and the Master assured us that
unless these days would be cut short by the establishment
of His Kingdom in the hands of the Elect, no flesh
would survive.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-327; Rev. 7:1-3; 16:14; Matt.
24:21.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To try them that dwell upon the earth.</hi>&mdash;<q>We understand
that the spirit of selfishness and ambition, which is
driving the nations insanely to war for commercial supremacy,
will increase more and more, and will involve
everybody.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-327; Rev. 6:10; 8:13; 11:10; 13:8, 14.
</p>

<p>
3:11. <hi rend='sans'>[Behold,] I come quickly.</hi>&mdash;To Smyrna (73-325 A.
D.) and Pergamos (325-1160 A. D.) nothing was said
about Christ's Second Advent; to Thyatira (1160-1378) the
Message was, <q>Hold fast till I come</q>; to Sardis (1378-1518)
it was, <q>If therefore thou shalt not reform, I will
come on thee as a thief</q>; to Philadelphia (1518-1874) it
was, <q>Behold, I come <emph>quickly</emph>.</q> How evident that these
messages to the Churches are epochs drawing nearer and
nearer to the climax of history, the Fifth Universal Empire,
now come at last!
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Hold that fast which thou hast.</hi>&mdash;<q>The Miller movement
was a separation, as between those who kept the Word
of God with patience and those who lost their faith in
His Word. The Philadelphia Church, which patiently
passed through so severe a trial of their faith, would not
be subjected to the later test.</q>&mdash;Z. '15-199.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That no man take thy crown.</hi>&mdash;<q>Unfaithfulness may
lead to the blotting out of some names and the giving of
their crowns to others.</q> (F. 165.) <q>It is our expectation
that this work of going out and coming in will continue
until the last member of the New Creation shall have
been found worthy, and all the crowns everlastingly apportioned.</q>&mdash;F. 95;
1 Sam. 16:1; Rev. 2:10.
</p>

<p>
3:12. <hi rend='sans'>Him that overcometh will I make a pillar [in]
TO the Temple of my God.</hi>&mdash;<q>During the Philadelphia
period the faithful have either been obliged to come out
of the nominal temple or have been cast out. The reward
promised such is that each will be a pillar in the
eternal Temple&mdash;a part which cannot be removed while
<pb n='052'/><anchor id='Pg052'/>
the structure exists.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-347; Gal. 2:9; 1 Kings 7:21,
22; Jer. 1:18; 1 Cor. 3:17; Eph. 2:19-22.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And he shall [go no more] NOT GO out.</hi>&mdash;<q>During
their trial state their names were cast out as evil; they
were not recognized as Christians. All this is to be
reversed. <q>The Lord knoweth them that are His.</q></q>&mdash;Z. '16-347.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And I will write upon him the name of My God.</hi>&mdash;<q>And
I looked, and, lo, a Lamb stood on the mount Sion, and
with Him an hundred and forty and four thousand, having
His Father's name written on their foreheads [intellects].</q>&mdash;Rev.
14:1; 22:4.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the name of the city of My God.</hi>&mdash;<q>And they shall
call them, The holy people, The redeemed of the Lord:
and thou shalt be called, Sought out, A city not forsaken.</q>&mdash;Isa.
62:12; Ezek. 48:35; Jer. 23:6; 33:16.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which is New Jerusalem.</hi>&mdash;<q>Glorious City of Peace!
whose foundations, laid in justice, can never be moved,
and whose builder and designer is God! It is in the light
which will shine from this glorious City (Kingdom) of
God that the nations (people) will walk on the Highway
of Holiness, up to perfection and to full harmony with
God.</q>&mdash;Rev. 21:2, 10, 24; A 295.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which cometh down out of Heaven from My God.</hi>&mdash;<q>A
city is a symbol of a kingdom or dominion, and so God's
Kingdom is symbolized by the New Jerusalem, the new
dominion coming from Heaven to earth. At first it will
consist of only the Bride of Christ.</q>&mdash;A. 295; Heb. 12:18-22.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And I will write upon him My new name.</hi>&mdash;<q><q>Our
Righteousness of Jehovah.</q> How appropriate is this name
to the work and office of our Lord Jesus! Did He not
stand as the Representative of God's righteousness and
suffer the penalty of Justice as man's Ransom&mdash;that God
might be just, and yet be the Justifier of him that believeth
in Jesus? Surely no name could be more appropriate.
(Jer. 33:16; 23:6; T. 102.) And that this name
will be appropriate to the glorified Church all can readily
see: she not only shares her Lord's sufferings for righteousness,
<q>filling up that which is behind of the afflictions
of Christ</q> (Col. 1:24; 1 Pet. 5:9), but is also promised a
share in all the glories of her Lord, as a wife shares her
husband's honors and <emph>name</emph>.</q>&mdash;E. 45, 42; Isa. 9:6; Rev.
2:17; 19:12.
</p>

<p>
3:13. <hi rend='sans'>He that hath an ear.</hi>&mdash;<q>Having eyes, see ye not?
And having ears, hear ye not?</q>&mdash;Mark 8:18.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches.</hi>&mdash;<q>Let
these sayings sink down into your ears.</q>&mdash;Luke 9:44.
</p>

<pb n='053'/><anchor id='Pg053'/>

<p>
3:14. <hi rend='sans'>And [unto] BY the angel.</hi>&mdash;The special messenger
to the last Age of the Church was Charles T. Russell,
born February 16, 1852. He has privately admitted his
belief that he was chosen for his great work from before
his birth. His mother died when he was nine years old;
and at the age of eleven Charles formed a business partnership
with his father, himself writing the articles of
agreement under which they transacted business. When
he was but twelve years of age, his father found him in
the store one time at 2 a. m., poring over a concordance,
unconscious of the lapse of time. We give some extracts
from his autobiography:
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>We begin the narrative at the year 1868, when the
Editor, having been a consecrated child of God for some
years, and a member of the Congregational Church and
of the Y. M. C. A., began to be shaken in faith regarding
many long accepted doctrines. Brought up a Presbyterian,
indoctrinated from the catechism, and being naturally
of an inquiring mind, I fell a ready prey to the
logic of infidelity, as soon as I began to think for myself.
But that which at first threatened to be the utter shipwreck
of faith in God and the Bible, was, under God's
providence, overruled for good, and merely wrecked my
confidence in human creeds and systems of Bible interpretations.
I was led gradually to see that though each of
the creeds contained some elements of Truth, they were,
on the whole, misleading and contradictory of God's
Word. Among other theories, I stumbled upon Adventism.
Seemingly by accident, one evening I dropped into
a dusty, dingy hall in Allegheny, Pa., where I had heard
that religious services were held, to see if the handful
who met there had anything more sensible to offer than
the creeds of the great churches. There, for the first
time, I heard something of the views of Second Adventism,
by Jonas Wendell, long since deceased. Thus I confess
indebtedness to Adventists as well as to other Bible
students. Though his Scripture exposition was not
entirely clear, and though it was very far from what we
now rejoice in, it was sufficient, under God, to reestablish
my wavering faith in the Divine inspiration of the
Bible, and to show that the records of the Apostles and
the Prophets are indissolubly linked.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>When in 1872 I came to examine the subject of Restitution
from the standpoint of the Ransom-price given by
our Lord Jesus for Adam, and consequently for all lost
in Adam, it settled the matter of Restitution completely,
and gave me the fullest assurance that ALL <emph>must come
forth</emph> from their graves and be brought to a clear knowledge
<pb n='054'/><anchor id='Pg054'/>
of the Truth and to a full opportunity to gain everlasting
life through Christ. The years following, to 1876,
were years of continued growth in grace and in knowledge
on the part of the handful of Bible students with
whom I met in Allegheny. We progressed from our first
crude and indefinite ideas of Restitution to clearer understanding
of the details; but God's due time for clear
light had not yet come. During this time, too, we came
to recognize the difference between our Lord as <q>the <emph>Man</emph>
who gave Himself,</q> and as the One who would come
again, a <emph>Spirit Being</emph>. We saw that spirit beings can be
present and yet invisible to men.... It seems that not
long after their 1874 disappointment, a reader of <hi rend='italic'>The
Herald of the Morning</hi>, who had a copy of the <hi rend='italic'>Emphatic
Diaglott</hi>, noticed something in it which he thought peculiar&mdash;that
in Matthew 24:27, 37, 39, the Greek word
<foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>parousia</foreign>, which in our Common Version is rendered
<q><emph>coming</emph>,</q> is in the <hi rend='italic'>Diaglott</hi> translated <q><emph>presence</emph></q>&mdash;evidently
the correct translation of the Greek. This was the
clue; and following it, they had been led through
prophetic <emph>time</emph> toward proper views regarding the object
and manner of our Lord's Return, and then to the examination
of the time when the things indicated in God's
Word as related to Christ's <foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>parousia</foreign> should take place.
Thus God leads His children often from different starting
points of Truth. But where the heart is earnest and
trustful, the results must be to draw all together.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>There were no books or other publications setting
forth the time prophecies as then understood. So I paid
Mr. Barbour's expenses to come to see me at Philadelphia
(where I had business engagements during the summer
of 1876), to show me fully and Scripturally, if he could,
that the prophecies indicated 1874 as the date at which
the Lord's <emph>presence</emph> and the Harvest began. He came,
and the evidence satisfied me. Being a person of positive
convictions, and fully consecrated to the Lord, I at once
saw that the special times in which we live have an
important bearing upon our duty and work as Christ's
disciples; that since we are living in the time of the
Harvest, the Harvest work should be done; and that
Present Truth is the sickle by which the Lord would
have us do a reaping work everywhere among His children.
I inquired of Mr. Barbour as to what was being
done by him and <hi rend='italic'>The Herald</hi>. He replied that nothing
was being done.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-170, 171.
</p>

<p>
Pastor Russell took the place of Mr. Barbour who became
unfaithful and upon whom was fulfilled the prophecies
of Matt. 24:48-51 and Zech. 11:15-17.
</p>

<pb n='055'/><anchor id='Pg055'/>

<p>
<q>In 1877 Pastor Russell called a meeting of all the ministers
of Allegheny and Pittsburgh, showed them the
Scriptures which indicated our Lord's presence and urged
them to investigate and proclaim the message. All of the
ministers of the two cities were present; all of the ministers
of the two cities refused to believe. In the same
year he determined to give up secular work and devote
his entire time and fortune to the work indicated in the
Scriptures as incident to the close of the Gospel Age and
change of dispensation impending. As a means of determining
whether his course was in harmony with the
Scriptures, and also as a means of demonstrating his own
sincerity, he decided to test the Lord's approval as follows:
(1) Devote his life to the cause; (2) Invest his
fortune in the promulgation of the work; (3) Prohibit
collections at all meetings; (4) Depend on unsolicited
contributions (wholly voluntary) to continue the work
after his fortune was exhausted. In 1881, 1,400,000 copies
of <hi rend='italic'>Food for Thinking Christians</hi> were distributed free at
the doors of the Protestant churches in the United
States, Canada and Great Britain on three consecutive
Sundays, by A. D. T. messenger boys.</q>&mdash;Obituary.
</p>

<p>
As to his education we quote his own words: <q>As respects
my education in Greek and Hebrew: Not only do
I not claim very special knowledge of either language, but
I claim that not one minister in a thousand is either a
Hebrew or a Greek scholar. To be able to spell out a
few Greek words is of no earthly value. Nor is it necessary
longer to study these languages in order to have
knowledge of the Bible. Our Presbyterian friends have
gotten out at great cost Young's Analytical Hebrew,
Chaldaic, Greek and English Lexicon Concordance, which
any one may procure. And our Methodist friends have
issued a similar work&mdash;Strong's Analytical Concordance
and Lexicon. And there is a still older one entitled
Englishman's Hebrew, Chaldaic, Greek and English Lexicon
and Concordance. Additionally, Liddell and Scott's
Greek Lexicon is a standard authority. The prices of
these are not beyond the reach of the average man. By
these works scholarly information respecting the original
text of the Bible is obtainable. I have all four of these
works and have used them faithfully. Very few college
professors, even, would risk to give a critical translation
of any text of Scripture without consulting these very
works of reference, which are standard. Additionally I
remind you of the many translations of the Bible now extant&mdash;all
of them very good. I have all of these and find
them useful in comparison and study of any text&mdash;one
<pb n='056'/><anchor id='Pg056'/>
sometimes giving a thought which another may not. The
other day, for curiosity's sake, I counted Bibles in different
translations, etc., in my study, and found that I have
thirty-two.</q>&mdash;Z. '14-286.
</p>

<p>
As to his ordination we quote him again: <q>There are
two ordinations proper. One is of God; one of men. The
ordination of God is the begetting of the Holy Spirit. If
any are preaching without this ordination, they are doing
something that they are not authorized to do. There
comes, however, another special ordination of those who
are called ministers of the Gospel, in which class I count
myself. This is ordination by the Church, and is recognized
by all denominations everywhere. By some it is
considered a mere form, by some it is performed with
great ceremony, by others with less ceremony. But to our
understanding, each congregation should have those
whom it has chosen ordained in a Scriptural way&mdash;by the
stretching forth of hands&mdash;by a vote. Whoever has not
been ordained in these two ways is not an ordained minister
of the Gospel in the Scriptural sense. First, the
Divine ordination is necessary; second, the earthly ordination
is necessary. By the grace of God I have both of
these.</q>&mdash;Z. '15-358.
</p>

<p>
As to his doctrines we quote him the third time: <q rend='pre'>To
us the Scriptures clearly teach that the Church is the
<q>Temple of the living God</q>&mdash;peculiarly <q>His workmanship</q>;
its construction has been in progress throughout the Gospel
Age&mdash;ever since Christ became the world's Redeemer
and Chief Corner Stone of His Temple, through which,
when finished, God's blessing shall come <q>to all people,</q>
and they find access to Him. (1 Cor. 3:16, 17; Eph. 2:20;
Gen. 28:14; Gal. 3:29.) That meantime the chiseling,
shaping and polishing of consecrated believers in Christ's
Atonement for sin progresses; and when the last of these
<q>living stones,</q> <q>elect and precious,</q> shall have been made
ready, the great Master Workman will bring all together
in the First Resurrection; and the Temple shall be filled
with His glory, and be the meeting place between God and
men throughout the Millennium. (Rev. 15:6-8; 21:3.)
We affirm the pre-existence of Jesus as the mighty Word
(Logos)&mdash;Spokesman&mdash;<q>the beginning of the creation of
God,</q> <q>the First-Born of every creature,</q> the active Agent
of the Heavenly Father, Jehovah, in all the work of creation.
<q>Without Him was not anything made that was
made.</q> (Rev. 3:14; Col. 1:15; John 1:3.) We affirm that
the Word (Logos) was made flesh&mdash;became the Babe of
Bethlehem&mdash;thus becoming the Man Jesus, <q>holy, harmless,
undefiled, separate from sinners.</q> As we affirm the
<pb n='057'/><anchor id='Pg057'/>
humanity of Jesus, we equally affirm the Divinity of
Christ&mdash;<q>God also hath highly exalted Him, and given Him
a name above every name.</q> (Heb. 7:26; Phil. 2:9.)</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>We acknowledge that the personality of the Holy
Spirit is the Father and the Son; that the Holy Spirit
proceeds from both, and is manifested in all who receive
the begetting of the Holy Spirit and thereby become sons
of God. (John 1:12; 1 Pet. 1:3.) We affirm the resurrection
of Christ&mdash;that He was put to death in flesh but
quickened in Spirit. We deny that He was raised in the
flesh, and challenge any statement to that effect as being
unscriptural. (1 Pet. 3:18; 2 Cor. 3:17; 1 Cor. 15:8; Acts
26:13-15.) That the basis of Hope, for the Church and
the World, lies in the fact that <q>Jesus Christ, by the grace
of God, tasted death for every man,</q> <q>a Ransom for all,</q>
and will be <q>the true Light which lighteth every man that
cometh into the world,</q> <q>in due time.</q> (Heb. 2:9; John
1:9; 1 Tim. 2:5, 6.) That the Hope of the Church is
that she may be like her Lord, <q>see Him as He is,</q> be
<q>partaker of the Divine nature,</q> and share His glory as
His joint-heir. (1 John 3:2; John 17:24; Rom. 8:17; 2
Pet. 1:4.) That the present mission of the Church is
the perfecting of the saints for the future work of service;
to develop in herself every grace; to be God's witness
to the world; and to prepare to be kings and priests in
the next Age. (Eph. 4:12; Matt. 24:14; Rev. 1:6; 20:6.)
That the Hope for the World lies in the blessings of
knowledge and opportunity to be brought to all by Christ's
Millennial Kingdom&mdash;the Restitution of all that was lost
in Adam, to all the willing and obedient, at the hands of
their Redeemer and His glorified Church&mdash;when all the
wilfully wicked shall be destroyed. (Acts 3:19-23; Isa.
35.)</q>&mdash;B. S. M.
</p>

<p>
The amount of work that Pastor Russell performed
<emph>is incredible</emph>, and it is doubtful whether it was ever
equalled by any other human being. When he was in
his twenties he was refused the lease of a property because
the owner thought he would surely die before the
lease had expired. For fifty years he suffered constantly
with sick headaches, due to a fall in his youth, and for
twenty-five years had such distressing hemorrhoids that
it was impossible for him to rest in the easiest chair; yet
in the past forty years he traveled a million miles, delivered
30,000 sermons and table talks&mdash;many of them
2-½ hours long&mdash;wrote over 50,000 pages (of this size) of
advanced Biblical exposition, often dictated 1,000 letters
per month, managed every department of a world-wide
evangelistic campaign employing 700 speakers, personally
<pb n='058'/><anchor id='Pg058'/>
compiled the most wonderful Biblical drama ever
shown; and with all that, he found time in the course
of each year to personally aid thousands with his fatherly
counsel. At one time his writings were subjected
to an analysis of 20,511 Scripture expositions. These
were assembled in Biblical order and disclosed but six
points of inquiry, all easily harmonized. No writer, not
even excepting the writers of the Bible, have ever had
such critical readers. His works have been published in
35 languages. During the last eight days of his life he
had appointments in California, Kansas, Oklahoma,
Nebraska and New York; and though for several days
manifestly dying, with cystitis (caused by excessive travel
and speaking), he declined to cancel any engagements,
and went out of this life October 31, 1916, on a railroad
train en route to his Kansas appointment. At the age of
30 he had accumulated a fortune of over $300,000, but
died penniless, his own fortune, as well as all the large
sums contributed to the cause, having been used up in the
Master's service. He was beloved everywhere by those
who <q>follow the Lamb whithersoever He goeth.</q>&mdash;Rev.
14:4. For further particulars of Pastor Russell's service
of God's people see Memorial Number of <hi rend='italic'>Zions Watch
Tower and Herald of Christ's Presence</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the church [of the Laodiceans] IN LAODICEA.</hi>&mdash;It is
significant that in the first epoch of the Church there
were Nicolaitanes (<foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>nikon ton laon</foreign>), <q>vanquishers of the
people,</q> a clergy class who succeeded in pulling the wool
over the eyes of the common people; but that the last
age of the Church is Laodicean (<foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>laos dike</foreign>), <q>justice for
the people.</q> We find we get along much better without
the clergy than we did with them. The Laodicean period
of the Church extends from the fall of 1874 to the spring
of 1918, three and one-half years of preparation, and
forty years of Harvest. <q>The parallels affected merely
the nominal Jewish House <emph>there</emph> and the nominal Christian
House <emph>here</emph>. Both were rejected because of failure to be
in the right condition of heart for the truths that were
due to them&mdash;both rejected for destruction. The Jewish
System was a Church-State affair, paralleled here by the
great Church-State systems of Europe, whose destruction
began in 1914. Let us remember, however, that the three
and a half years of Jesus' ministry were more a time of
preparation of the Apostles to be the instruments for the
harvesting and a sharpening preparation of the Sickle of
Truth for the later work, which <emph>began</emph> at Pentecost. Prior
to Pentecost, there was <emph>no <q>garner</q></emph> into which to gather
the wheat.</q>
</p>

<pb n='059'/><anchor id='Pg059'/>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Jewish And Christian Parallels</q>
</p>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{3.5cm} p{3.5cm}'; tblcolumns: 'lw(30) lw(30)'">
<row><cell><q rend='pre'>Jewish-Nominal Church</q></cell>
  <cell>Christian-Nominal Church</cell></row>
<row><cell>A. D. 29-33</cell><cell>A. D. 1874-1878</cell></row>
<row><cell><q>They knew not the time of their visitation.</q></cell></row>
<row><cell><q rend='pre'>A. D. 33-36</q></cell><cell>A. D. 1878-1881</cell></row>
<row><cell>The Most Holy anointed, Divine favor prolonged
for three and a half years to complete
the 70 weeks of favor promised to Israel, their
rejection being deferred.</cell></row>
<row><cell><q rend='pre'>A. D. 36-73</q></cell><cell>A. D. 1881-1918</cell></row>
<row><cell>Because of the overspreading of abominations,
He shall make it desolate, even until the consummation,
or <emph>utter destruction</emph>&mdash;until all that
God has predetermined shall be accomplished.&mdash;Dan.
9:24-27.&mdash;Z. '16-264. See pages <ref target='Pg594'>594</ref>, <ref target='Pg595'>595</ref>.</cell></row>
</table>

<p>
The foregoing is Pastor Russell's last expression on the
subject of chronology; and we believe that it was designed
to be of great value to the Lord's people at this
hour. <q>The Apostles, the Prophets and the angels
all desired and sought earnestly to know what <emph>time</emph> the
Spirit of God indicated through the Prophets. And this
interest on the part of His children is ever pleasing to
God. He called the inquiring Daniel greatly beloved, and
answered his inquiry so far as was consistent with His
Plan. Such inquiry should not be regarded as an improper
prying into the secrets of God. God would have
us quickly discern the Truth as it becomes <emph>due</emph>.</q> (B. 17.)
<q>Let none, then, of the truly consecrated under-value
these prophetic time-evidences, which were designed to
guide our words and deeds in the early dawn of the
Millennial Day. These prophetic time-proofs were largely
God's means of drawing the attention of the writer more
carefully to other features of the Divine Plan.</q>&mdash;B. 31.
</p>

<p>
Daniel <q>understood by books</q> (Jeremiah's prophecy)
the length of the great captivity of the children of Israel.
(Dan. 9:2.) At Christ's First Advent there was but one
time-prophecy calling attention to that event (Dan. 9:24-27),
yet all the people <q>were in expectation</q> of it (Luke
3:15.) In the year 1190 the good monk Joachim declared
that the Papal system was Antichrist, that the history of
mankind is divided into three ages, and that in the year
1260 the Papacy would give way to a new system in
which the whole world would be <q>one vast monastery.</q>
<q>In 1260 the Council of Arles pronounced all followers of
<pb n='060'/><anchor id='Pg060'/>
Joachim heretics.</q> His application of the correct principle,
<q>a year for a day,</q> made in the very depths of the
Dark Ages, is one of the most pathetic incidents in the
history of mankind; but his study of time-prophecy
brought him peace and joy of heart. He was an opponent
of the prevailing <q>doctrine of the Trinity.</q> William
Miller, in the year 1829, was privileged to see (approximately)
the correct date for the setting up of the abomination
of desolation (539 A. D.), and for the beginning of
the Time of the End (1799 A. D.) Morton Edgar, author
of <hi rend='italic'>Pyramid Passages</hi>, has found foreshown in the Great
Pyramid of Egypt abundant evidence of the accuracy of
the Bible chronology of Pastor Russell and the supplements
thereto supplied by Dr. John Edgar, deceased.
These findings are set forth in his work, <hi rend='italic'>Pyramid Passages</hi>,
Vol. II, of which we recommend sections numbered
in the following table. For convenience we give the citations
to Pastor Russell's works in which the same items
are discussed. The Pyramid is still there, and the measurements
can be made by anybody. Pastor Russell's
chronology was written before he ever saw the Pyramid.
</p>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{1.7cm} p{2.5cm} p{1.4cm} p{1.4cm}'; tblcolumns: 'lw(17) lw(25) lw(9) lw(9)'">
<row><cell>Date Foreshown</cell><cell>Event</cell><cell>Pastor Russell's Works</cell>
  <cell>Sections of Pyramid Passages</cell></row>
<row><cell>Fall   4127 B. C.</cell><cell>Fall of Adam.</cell><cell>Z 04-343</cell><cell>25-30-58</cell></row>
<row><cell>Fall   3127 B. C.</cell><cell>End of Adam's 1000-year day.</cell><cell>Z 04-343</cell><cell>25-28</cell></row>
<row><cell>Fall   2473 B. C.</cell><cell>Flood.</cell><cell>B 42</cell><cell>24-30</cell></row>
<row><cell>Fall   2021 B. C.</cell><cell>Birth of Isaac.</cell><cell>B 231</cell><cell>45</cell></row>
<row><cell>Spring 1813 B. C.</cell><cell>Death of Jacob.</cell><cell>B 218-232</cell><cell>16-17</cell></row>
<row><cell>Spring 1615 B. C.</cell><cell>Exodus and giving of the Law.</cell><cell>B 42</cell><cell>11</cell></row>
<row><cell>Spring 1575 B. C.</cell><cell>Entrance into Canaan.</cell><cell>B 42</cell><cell>43-46</cell></row>
<row><cell>Fall    626 B. C.</cell><cell>Last Jubilee.</cell><cell>B 185</cell><cell>50</cell></row>
<row><cell>Fall    607 B. C.</cell><cell>Desolation of the Land.</cell><cell>B 51</cell><cell>19-46-48</cell></row>
<row><cell>Fall    455 B. C.</cell><cell>Nehemiah's Commission.</cell><cell>B 67</cell><cell>51-52-53</cell></row>
<row><cell>Fall      2 B. C.</cell><cell>Birth of Christ.</cell><cell>B 54</cell><cell>10-43</cell></row>
<row><cell>Fall     29 A. D.</cell><cell>Baptism of Christ.</cell><cell>B 60</cell><cell>10-24-43-58</cell></row>
<row><cell>Spring   33 A. D.</cell><cell>Death of Christ.</cell><cell>B 61</cell><cell>10-11-14-32-45</cell></row>
<row><cell>Fall     36 A. D.</cell><cell>Conversion of Cornelius.</cell><cell>B 71</cell><cell>51</cell></row>
<row><cell>Spring 1378 A. D.</cell><cell>Wycliffe.</cell><cell>Z 05-185</cell><cell>37</cell></row>
<row><cell>Spring 1521 A. D.</cell><cell>Diet of Worms.</cell><cell>Z 05-180</cell><cell>38</cell></row>
<row><cell>Fall   1846 A. D.</cell><cell>Evangelical Alliance.</cell><cell>C 95-119</cell><cell>14-52</cell></row>
<row><cell>Fall   1874 A. D.</cell><cell>Second Advent of the Lord.</cell><cell>B 173-247</cell><cell>16-32-50</cell></row>
<row><cell>Spring 1878 A. D.</cell><cell>Favor to Jews and sleeping Saints.</cell><cell>C 233</cell><cell>17-28</cell></row>
<row><cell>Fall   1914 A. D.</cell><cell>End of Times of the Gentiles.</cell><cell>B 73</cell><cell>19-48</cell></row>
<row><cell>Fall   2875 A. D.</cell><cell>Restitution completed.</cell><cell>Z 04-344</cell><cell>37</cell></row>
<row><cell>Fall   2914 A. D.</cell><cell>Dominion restored to mankind.</cell><cell>Z 04-343</cell><cell>58</cell></row>
</table>

<pb n='061'/><anchor id='Pg061'/>

<p>
The chronology as it appears in the STUDIES IN THE
SCRIPTURES is accurate. The year 1914 brought the
end of the Times of the Gentiles, but not the end of the
Harvest work. Have the teachings of the Parallels lost
their value? Not at all. The point not previously noticed
is that the Jewish polity was not to be destroyed in
Jerusalem only, but throughout all Judea. Nor does
<hi rend='italic'>Judea</hi> mean all of Palestine. The actual depopulation of
the whole of Palestine did not occur until the year 135
A. D. (corresponding to our year 1980), on the ninth day
of the month of Ab, the anniversary of the burning of
the Temple under Titus. On that day came to an end
the insurrection of Bar-Cocheba, the false Messiah, who
wrought his own destruction and that of 580,000 of his
followers, when he attempted to regain control of Judea
and Jerusalem. The struggle was of five years' duration
having begun in 130 A. D. <q>It was the effort, under the
leadership of Bar-Cocheba, to regain their independence,
that brought about a repetition of scenes enacted under
Titus, and resulted actually in the depopulation of Palestine.
The whole of Judea was turned into a desert;
about 985 towns and villages were laid in ashes; fifty of
their fortresses were razed to the ground; even the
name of their capital was changed to Ælia Capitolina,
and they were forbidden to approach it on pain of death;
thousands of those who had escaped death were reduced
to slavery, and such as could not be thus disposed of
were transported into Egypt.</q>&mdash;McC.
</p>

<p>
When the Lord gave His wonderful prophecy in which
the destinies of nominal Fleshly Israel, nominal Spiritual
Israel, and the Israel of God, are set forth, it was in
answer to three definite questions: <q><emph>When</emph> shall these
things be? and what shall be the sign of Thy Parousia,
and of the <emph>end</emph> of the Age?</q> (Matt. 24:3.) The Lord did
not ignore their question. He answered it with a reply
that sweeps the history of twenty centuries. He showed
that the <emph>end</emph> of Fleshly Israel foreshadowed the <emph>end</emph> of
Spiritual Israel. Fleshly Israel had three ends; the destruction
of Jerusalem in A. D. 70, the complete subjugation
of Judea in A. D. 73, and the actual depopulation of
the whole of Palestine in A. D. 135. Which did He mean
should be the end that would be a guide to His followers?
Not the end in A. D. 70, foreshadowing 1915; for the Harvest
of the Gospel Age is still in progress. Not the end
in A. D. 135, foreshadowing 1980; for the <hi rend='italic'>Harvest is the
end</hi>. He must have meant the end in Judea, even as He
said, <q>Then let them which be in <hi rend='italic'>Judea</hi> flee into the
mountains.</q> (Matt. 24:16.) See also Matt. 2:22; 3:5;
<pb n='062'/><anchor id='Pg062'/>
Mark 1:5; Luke 1:5, 65; 3:1; 7:17; Acts 11:29; Rom.
15:31, and <emph>especially</emph> John 7:1-3 and 1 Thes. 2:14-16.
</p>

<p>
The data presented in comments on Rev. 2:1 <emph>prove</emph> that
the conquest of Judea was not completed until the day of
the Passover, A. D. 73, and in the light of the foregoing
Scriptures, <emph>prove</emph> that the Spring of 1918 will bring upon
Christendom a spasm of anguish greater even than that
experienced in the Fall of 1914. Reexamine the table of
the Parallel Dispensations in STUDIES IN THE SCRIPTURES,
Vol. 2, pages 246 and 247; change the 37 to 40,
70 to 73 and 1914 to 1918, and we believe it is correct
and will be fulfilled <q>with great power and glory,</q> (Mark
13:26.) It was entirely impossible to foresee whether our
Lord meant that A. D. 70 or A. D. 73 should serve as our
guide to the time when the Jewish polity came to an end,
until after October, 1915, had passed. Moreover, we have
seen the promised signs, <q>upon the earth distress of
nations, with perplexity; men's hearts failing them for
fear, and for looking after those things which are coming
on the earth,</q> and we have the Lord's words for it that
having seen those things <q>the Kingdom of God is nigh
at hand,</q> <q>even at the doors,</q> and our <q>redemption
draweth nigh.</q> (Luke 21:25-36; Mark 13:27-30.) It is
possible that A. D. 1980 marks the regathering of all of
Fleshly Israel from their captivity in death. It is just 70
years beyond 1910, the date when Pastor Russell gave his
great witness to the Jewish people in the New York Hippodrome.
See page <ref target='Pg551'>551</ref> (1).
</p>

<p>
But if the time of nominal Zion's travail (Isa. 66:8) is
due to occur in the Spring of 1918, and if we are now but
the <q>one day</q> (one year) distant from that event which
the Prophet mentions, what should be our expectation
regarding the experience of the <q>little flock</q> meantime?
<q rend='pre'>The symbolic travail, in the above prophecy, is a reference
to the great Time of Trouble&mdash;the travail that is to
come upon the nominal Gospel church, Great <q>Babylon,</q>
from which some are to be counted worthy to escape.
(Luke 21:36.) This is indicated by the preceding verse,
which locates the time of this prophecy as synchronous
with that wherein is heard <q>a voice of noise [confusion]
from the city</q> [Babylon], and <q>a voice [of truth and
warning] from the Temple</q> [the elect Little Flock of
consecrated and faithful ones], and <q>a voice of Jehovah
that rendereth recompense to His enemies</q>&mdash;in the great
Time of Trouble. The travail that is coming is to be
upon nominal Zion&mdash;<q>Christendom,</q> <q>Babylon</q>; and it will
be a great and sore affliction&mdash;<q>a Time of Trouble such as
was not since there was a nation.</q></q>
</p>

<pb n='063'/><anchor id='Pg063'/>

<p>
<q>But the marvelous thing the Prophet here has to record
is that a Man-child is to be born out of Zion before
this travail comes. This is a striking reference to the
fact, elsewhere clearly taught, that the ripe wheat of the
Gospel Church is to be separated from the tares, that
they are to be exalted and glorified before the burning,
the consuming trouble, shall come upon the latter. This
Man-child is, therefore, the Little Flock&mdash;the true Zion in
God's estimation, the Body of Christ; as it is written.
<q>There shall come out of Zion [the nominal Gospel
Church] the Deliverer [The Christ, Head and Body], and
shall turn away ungodliness from Jacob [the Fleshly
Israel, or Zion].</q> (Rom. 11:26.) This is the Man-child
that is to bless all the families of the earth. (Gen. 28:14;
Gal. 3:16, 29.) The birth of the Man-child is the First
Resurrection. Blessed and holy are all they that have
part in the First Resurrection. Such are now begotten
of God by the Word of Truth, and quickened by the Holy
Spirit (Jas. 1:18; Eph. 2:1; Rom. 8:11), and in due time&mdash;before
the travail&mdash;they will be born in the glorious likeness
of Christ. The birth of this Man-child began over
eighteen hundred years ago with the resurrection of
Christ Jesus. There the Head of this Body of Christ
came forth; and as surely as the Head has been born,
so surely shall the Body come forth. <q>Shall I bring to
the birth, and not cause to bring forth? saith the Lord:
shall I cause to bring forth and shut the womb? saith thy
God.</q> (Isa. 66:9.) Ah, no! <q>the Man-child, The Christ complete,
the Great Deliverer, shall come forth.</q></q>&mdash;Z. '94-135.
</p>

<p>
<q>But,</q> says one, <q>where is the fiery chariot that is to
accomplish a cleavage between the Elijah and Elisha
classes?</q> We offer the suggestion that the fiery horses
are lurid prophecies; the horsemen are Ezekiel and John,
and the chariot is the vehicle in which their Message is
brought to the Elijah class. And do the Elijah class
take to that vehicle? They <emph>do</emph>. And why? Because <q>the
sheep follow Him; for they know His voice.</q> (John
10:4.) The separation between the Elijah and Elisha
classes will be brought about in a perfectly natural way,
by some using the chariot which the Lord provides, and
others recognizing it, but not attempting to use it to
mount to the skies. And what should we expect such a
fiery chariot would do when caught up into the heavens?
The answer is prophetic, <q>The heavens being on fire shall
be dissolved;</q> <q>The heavens shall pass away with a
great noise;</q> <q>And all the host of heaven shall be dissolved,
and the heavens shall be rolled together as a
scroll: and all their host shall fall down, as the leaf
<pb n='064'/><anchor id='Pg064'/>
falleth from the vine, and as a falling fig from the fig-tree.</q>
(2 Pet. 3:12, 10; Isa. 34:4.) Evidently the circulation
of the penny will have something to do with the
burning of the tares!&mdash;Matt. 13:40-43; Isa. 21:9.
</p>

<p>
Forty days after Christ's resurrection His ascension
occurred. This confirms the hope of the Church's glorification
forty years (a year for a day) after the awakening
of the sleeping saints in the Spring of 1878. The seven
days before the Deluge may represent seven years, from
1914 to 1921, in the midst of which <q>week of years</q> the
last members of the Messiah pass beyond the veil. The
Great Company class shall be cut off at its end&mdash;the
fact that we see the first half of this week so distinctly
marked would lead us to expect three and one-half years
more of witnessing by the Great Company class; for it
seems to be the Heavenly Father's way to accomplish
His work by weeks and half weeks, from the very beginning
of creation until now. The covenant with Abraham,
2045 B. C., was half way (2081 years each way) between
the fall of Adam, 4127 B. C., and the conversion of Cornelius,
A. D. 36. The last observance of a typical jubilee
by Israel, 626 B. C., was half way (2500 years each way)
from the end of Adam's Day, 3127 B. C., and the beginning
of the Times of Restitution, A. D. 1874. The captivity, 606
B. C., marks the beginning of the Times of the Gentiles,
half way (2520 years each way) between the end of
Adam's 1000-year day, 3127 B. C., and the end of Gentile
Times, A. D. 1914. The captivity, 606 B. C., marks
a point half way (3520 years each way) between the
fall of man, 4127 B. C., and his full restoration to Divine
favor, A. D. 2914. Christ's death, A. D. 33, marks a point
half way (1845 years each way) between the death of
Jacob, 1813 B. C., and the restoration of favor to Israel
in 1878 A. D. The death of Christ, A. D. 33, was half way
(three and one-half years each way) between His baptism,
A. D. 29, and the conversion of Cornelius, A. D. 36.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url="images/img065.png" rend="width: 80%">
    <figDesc>Chronological Chart of Revelation</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
The awakening of the sleeping saints, A. D. 1878, was
just half way (three and one-half years each way) between
the beginning of the Times of Restitution in 1874
and the close of the High Calling in 1881. Our proposition
is that the glorification of the little Flock in the
Spring of 1918 A. D. will be half way (three and one-half
years each way) between the close of the Gentile Times
and the close of the Heavenly Way, A. D. 1921. The three
days' (three years&mdash;1918-1921) fruitless search for Elijah
(2 Kings 2:17-18) is a confirmation of this view. We
shall wait to see; but we shall not be indifferent while
we wait, lest peradventure another, more zealous, take the
<pb n='065'/><anchor id='Pg065'/>
crown we have. The time is not long: but if we have to
go on for fifty years, why should we care? We are the
Lord's. Let Him do as He will with His own.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url="images/img066.png" rend="width: 80%">
    <head>The Seven Messengers To The Church</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Write.</hi>&mdash;Pastor Russell was the most prolific writer of
Biblical truth that ever lived.&mdash;Ezek. 9:2, 3.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>These things saith the Amen.</hi>&mdash;The same word translated
<q>verily</q> in the Gospels and so often used by our
Lord as a solemn prefix to some important announcement.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>AND the faithful and true Witness.</hi>&mdash;Trinitarians witness
that Christ and the Father are one in person. Christ
Himself witnesses, <q>It is also written in your Law that
the testimony of two men is true. I am one that bear
witness of Myself, and the Father that sent Me beareth
witness of Me.</q> (John 8:17, 18.) Christ was one, and
the Father was one; and one plus one are two. (This
lesson in mathematics is for Doctors of Divinity; school
children will not need it.)&mdash;Rev. 1:5; 19:11.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>AND the Beginning of the [creation] CHURCH of God.</hi>&mdash;Either
reading is correct. Our Lord was the Beginning
of the New Creation, but, more than that, He was the
Beginning of <emph>all</emph> creation. <q>He is the Image of the invisible
God&mdash;<emph>First-born of all creation</emph>; because by Him
were all things created, those in the heavens and those
on the earth, visible and invisible&mdash;whether thrones, or
lordships, or governments, or authorities: all things were
created by Him and for Him, and He precedes all things,
and in Him all things have been permanently placed.
(Col. 1:15-18.) Hear also the word of prophecy concerning
the Only-Begotten, not only declaring His coming
exaltation as King of earthly kings, but describing Him
as already being Jehovah's <hi rend='italic'>First-born</hi>, saying, <q>I will make
Him, My First-born, higher than the kings of the earth.</q>
(Psa. 89:27.)</q>&mdash;E. <hi rend='italic'>95</hi>, 86.
</p>

<p>
3:15. <hi rend='sans'>I know thy works.</hi>&mdash;<q>The Laodicean Church has
much zeal, but not according to knowledge. She claims
that her principal object is to convert sinners, to bring
forth spiritual children. The Prophet puts these words
into the mouth of nominal Christians when they awake to
a knowledge of the situation: <q>We have been with child,
we have been in pain, we have as it were brought forth
wind; we have not wrought any deliverance in the earth;
neither have the inhabitants of the earth fallen (become
converted).</q> (Isa. 26:16-18.)</q> (Z. '16-347.) The literal
city of Laodicea was distinguished for the raven blackness
of the fleeces (black sheep) there to be had.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That thou are neither cold.</hi>&mdash;Making no pretense whatever
to be exponents of God's Truth.&mdash;Luke 7:36-50.
</p>

<pb n='066'/><anchor id='Pg066'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Nor hot.</hi>&mdash;Full of warm, loving devotion to Christ.&mdash;2
Tim. 3:5; Ezek. 5:6.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>I would thou wert cold or hot.</hi>&mdash;<q>Ephraim is a cake not
turned.</q>&mdash;Hos. 7:8.
</p>

<p>
3:16. <hi rend='sans'>So then.</hi>&mdash;<q>The Spring of 1878, corresponding to
the date at which our Lord assumed the office of King,
rode on the ass, cleansed the Temple of its money-changers,
and wept over and gave up to desolation that
nominal church or kingdom, marks the date from which
the nominal church systems are not the mouth-pieces of
God, nor in any degree recognized by Him.</q>&mdash;B. 235.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Because thou art THUS lukewarm and ART neither
[cold nor hot] HOT NOR COLD.</hi>&mdash;<q>Retaining the forms
of worship and faith in a Creator and in a future life,
but viewing these chiefly through their own or other
men's philosophies and theories, and ignoring the Bible
as an infallible teacher of the Divine purposes. These,
while retaining the Bible, disbelieve its narratives, especially
that of Eden and the fall. Retaining the name of
Jesus, and calling Him the Christ and the Savior, they
regard Him merely as an excellent though not infallible
Exemplar, and reject entirely His Ransom-sacrifice&mdash;His
cross. Claiming the Fatherhood of God to extend to
sinners, they repudiate both the curse and the Mediator.</q>&mdash;C. 167.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[I will spue thee out of My] REFRAIN THY mouth.</hi>&mdash;She
is bidden to hold her peace. She needs to <emph>study</emph>, not
to teach; and so the following verses indicate.&mdash;Hos.
5:6; 9:12.
</p>

<p>
3:17. <hi rend='sans'>Because thou sayest I am rich.</hi>&mdash;I have all the
spiritual light that exists in the world. <q>I have much
goods laid up for many years.</q> (Luke 12:19.) <q>I sit a
queen, and am no widow, and shall see no sorrow.</q>&mdash;Rev.
18:7; Hos. 12:8; 1 Cor. 4:8.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And Increased with goods.</hi>&mdash;<q>Laodiceans count their
numbers and their donations by millions, and say, <q>We
are rich as never before.</q> Alas, that they do not realize
that these are earthly riches of the kind which our Lord
declares are no evidence of His favor during this Gospel
Age, but rather to the contrary! And they see not the
true riches which the Lord admires, and which are the
foretaste of His favor and the coming Kingdom wealth.</q>&mdash;Z. '01-56.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And have need of nothing.</hi>&mdash;<q>They will not own that
they have departed from the right ways of the Lord: in
their own estimation they are rich and increased with
goods, spiritual as well as temporal, and have need of
nothing.</q>&mdash;Mal. 3:7; Z. '92-261.
</p>

<pb n='067'/><anchor id='Pg067'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And knowest not that thou.</hi>&mdash;Of all others, so the Greek
indicates.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Art wretched.</hi>&mdash;<q>To our eternal disgrace, the United
States leads all civilized countries in homicides&mdash;over
8,000 yearly. There are twelve murders in New England
to one in London; in California seventy-five to one; in
Nevada 245 to one.</q> (Z. '08-83.) <q>Each nation feels that
theirs is the greatest talent, theirs are the finest guns,
theirs the best everything; and it is this feeling of self-sufficiency
that led the nations into the present conflict.
They think that they are so good and so great that God
could not help giving them the victory.</q>&mdash;Z. '15-174.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And miserable.</hi>&mdash;<q>How blind we all have been not to
have noticed: (1) That the numbers of the heathen in
proportion even to the nominally Christian doubled last
century; (2) That if we could bring all the heathen up
to the standard of our most civilized nation it would
mean that God's will would be less done the world over
than it is now.</q>&mdash;Z. '08-83.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And poor.</hi>&mdash;<q>The Laodicean Church is poor in that she
has so little of the Master's Spirit, so little of the Truth
and of the Spirit of the Truth.</q>&mdash;Z. '01-56.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And blind.</hi>&mdash;<q>She cannot see afar off, cannot see either
the High Calling of the Church or the blessed provisions
of Restitution for the world in general.</q>&mdash;Z. '98-128.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And naked.</hi>&mdash;<q>The clergy, under the name of Higher
Criticism and Evolution, are rapidly denuding her, making
her naked, taking from her the robe of Christ's righteousness,
and leading her to trust, not in the precious blood
of the Redeemer, but in an evolutionary process which
needs no Savior, which denies that there is, or has been,
any sin to make atonement for.</q>&mdash;Z. '01-56.
</p>

<p>
3:18. <hi rend='sans'>I counsel thee.</hi>&mdash;<q>Thou shalt guide me with Thy
counsel and afterward receive me into glory.</q>&mdash;Psa. 73:24.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To buy of Me.</hi>&mdash;<q>Not until we lay hold by faith upon the
<emph>exceeding great and precious</emph> promises is there any of the
<q>gold</q> of the <q>Divine nature</q> in us. This treasure can be
<emph>purchased</emph> only at the cost of entire consecration, or sacrifice
of all that we have, to Christ</q>&mdash;Z. '96-44; Prov.
23:23; Matt. 13:44.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Gold tried in the fire.</hi>&mdash;<q>If we would purchase the <q>gold
<hi rend='italic'>tried in the fire</hi>,</q> it must be at the cost of faithful and
constant submission to the discipline of the Lord in fiery
trials. How otherwise can the dross be eliminated?
There is no other way. Wherefore, think it not strange;
let the fire burn; let the dross be consumed; and see to
it, beloved, that in the heat of the flame you remove not
the <q>living sacrifice.</q></q>&mdash;Z. '96-44; 1 Pet. 4:12.
</p>

<pb n='068'/><anchor id='Pg068'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That thou mayest be rich.</hi>&mdash;<q>For ye know the grace of
our Lord Jesus Christ, that, though He was rich, yet for
your sakes He became poor, that ye through His poverty
might be rich.</q>&mdash;2 Cor. 8:9; Prov. 10:22; Lu. 12:21; 1
Tim. 6:18; Jas. 2:5; Rev. 2:9.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And white raiment.</hi>&mdash;<q>The robe of Christ's imputed
righteousness, which so many are now discarding, to appear
before God in their own unrighteousness.</q>&mdash;D. 42;
Rev. 19:8.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That thou mayest be clothed.</hi>&mdash;<q>A glorious church, not
having spot, or wrinkle, or any such thing.</q>&mdash;Eph. 5:27.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And that the shame of thy nakedness do not appear.</hi>&mdash;<q>Behold
I come as a thief. Blessed is he that watcheth
and keepeth his garments, lest he walk naked and they
see his shame.</q>&mdash;Rev. 16:15; Matt. 22:11-13; Isa. 47:3.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And anoint thine eyes with eyesalve.</hi>&mdash;From the Great
Physician. (Mark 2:17.) <q>Complete consecration and
submission to the Divine will as expressed in the Scriptures.</q>&mdash;D. 42.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That thou mayest see.</hi>&mdash;<q>The <q>master of the house</q> or
<q>householder</q> of the present dispensation is not <emph>our</emph> Lord,
but <emph>our</emph> Adversary, the Devil&mdash;<q>the god of this world,</q> <q>the
prince of the power of the air,</q> <q>the prince of this world,</q>
who now ruleth in the children of disobedience, <emph>blinding</emph>
the minds of all that believe not.</q>&mdash;D. 611; 2 Cor. 4:4;
Eph. 2:2; Psa. 13:3; 19:8; John 9:6, 41.
</p>

<p>
3:19. <hi rend='sans'>As many as I love.</hi>&mdash;<q>As many as are honest and
at heart loyal to God.</q>&mdash;Z. '92-59.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>I rebuke and chasten.</hi>&mdash;<q><q>My son, despise not thou the
chastening of the Lord, nor faint when thou art rebuked
of Him; for whom the Lord loveth He chasteneth.</q>&mdash;Prov.
3:11, 12; Heb. 12:5-8.</q>&mdash;Z. '96-44; Job 5:17; Jas.
1:12.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Be zealous, therefore, and repent.</hi>&mdash;<q>The lawyer who
makes legality his test instead of justice; the merchant
who is satisfied simply to conform to the code of his
trade, whose excuse for any dishonesty is, <q>They all do it</q>;
the <q>gentleman</q> or <q>lady</q> who puts good form and manners
in the place of sincerity and kindliness of heart, and
politeness in place of courtesy&mdash;all are alike animated
by the ecclesiastical conscience. It was this ecclesiastical
mind and this ecclesiastical conscience which crucified
Jesus Christ (Rt. Rev. Chas. D. Williams, Protestant
Episcopal Bishop of Michigan.)</q>&mdash;Z. '15-339.
</p>

<p>
3:20. <hi rend='sans'>Behold, I stand at the door.</hi>&mdash;Some of the Scriptures,
which, when understood in their connections and
significance, prove that the Lord's Second Advent occurred
in the fall of 1874 are as follows: <q>Speak ye comfortably
<pb n='069'/><anchor id='Pg069'/>
to Jerusalem, and cry unto her, that her warfare
is accomplished, that her iniquity is pardoned; for she
hath received of the Lord's hand <emph>double</emph> for all her sins.</q>
(Isa. 40:2; B. 227.) <q>And first I will recompense their
iniquity and their sin <emph>double</emph>.</q> (Jer. 16:18; B. 218.) <q>Turn
you to the strong hold, ye prisoners of hope: even <emph>today</emph>
do I declare that I will render <emph>double</emph> unto thee.</q> (Zech.
9:12; B. 224.) <q>The <emph>fourteenth</emph> day of the second month,
at even, they shall keep it.</q> (Num. 9:11; Z. '98-68.) <q>And
when her days to be delivered were fulfilled, behold, there
were <emph>twins</emph>.</q> (Gen. 25:24; Z. '94-63.) <q>And when he was
full <emph>forty</emph> years old, it came into his heart to visit his
brethren. And when <emph>forty</emph> years were expired, there appeared
to him in the wilderness of Mount Sinai an angel
of the Lord.</q> <q>Wonders and signs in the land of Egypt,
and in the Red Sea, and in the Wilderness <emph>forty</emph> years.</q>&mdash;Acts
7:23, 30, 36; Z. '11-215.
</p>

<p>
<q>Blessed is he that waiteth, and cometh to the thousand
three hundred and five and thirty days.</q> (Dan. 12:12;
C. 83.) <q>Then shalt thou cause the trumpet of the jubilee
to sound on the tenth day of the seventh month, in the
day of atonement.</q> (Lev. 25:9; B. 187.) <q>As long as she
lay desolate she kept sabbath, to fulfil threescore and ten
years.</q> (2 Chron. 36:21; B. 195.) <q>In that day shall there
be an altar to the Lord in the midst of the land of
Egypt, and a pillar at the border thereof to the Lord.
And it shall be for a sign and for a witness unto the
Lord of hosts in the land of Egypt.</q> (Isa. 19:19, 20;
C. 315.) <q>The like figure whereunto even baptism doth also
now save us.</q> (1 Pet. 3:21; Z. '05-181, Diagram.) <q>In the
first year of Cyrus, king of Persia, he made a proclamation.</q>
(Ezra 1:1; Z. '05-185.) <q>This house was finished
on the third day of the month Adar, which was in the
sixth year of the reign of Darius the king.</q> (Ezra 6:15;
Z. '05-185.) <q>This Ezra went up from Babylon....
And he came to Jerusalem in the fifth month, which was
in the seventh year of the king.</q> (Ezra 7:6-8; Z. '05-185.)
<q>In the twentieth year of Artaxerxes the king.</q>&mdash;Neh.
2:1; Z. '05-185.
</p>

<p>
Besides the above Scriptures, time-proofs of the Lord's
Return, are the fulfilments of the promised signs: The
Gospel has been preached in all the world for a witness:
(Matt. 24:14; A. 91); the abomination has been <emph>seen</emph> in the
holy place (Matt. 24:15; D. 572); the flight of the saints
from the antitypical <q>Judea</q> has occurred (Matt. 24:16;
D. 573); the great tribulation has commenced (Matt.
24:21; D. 540); the false Christs are with us (Matt.
24:23; D. 580); the eagles have gathered to the carcase
<pb n='070'/><anchor id='Pg070'/>
(Matt. 24:28; D. 610); the sun and moon have been
darkened (Matt. 24:29; D. 590); the Man of Sin has been
revealed (2 Thes. 2:8; T. 86; B. 271); the Elias has come
(Mal. 4:5; B. 251); the regathering of the Jews has
begun (Jer. 31:8; Z. '06-84); the refining of the sons
of Levi progresses (Mal. 3:1-3; Z. '05-378); the true
faith was nearly extinct in the earth (Luke 18:8; Z. '06-265);
the doctrines of devils are rampant (1 Tim. 4:1;
F. 621); the perilous times and all associated evils are
here (2 Tim. 3:1-7; Z. '99-99); the Lord God has given the
sinners water of gall to drink (Jer. 8:14; C. 158); the
mighty angel has roared, <q>Come out of her</q> (Rev. 18:4;
C. 155); the running to and fro is in evidence (Dan. 12:4;
C. 63); the antitypical Josiah has kept the great Passover
(2 Chron. 35:19; Z. '05-180); the land shadowed with wings
has played its part (Isa. 18:1; Z. '04-230); the watchman
has stood upon his tower (Hab. 2:1; C. 89); the wheels
within wheels are made clear (Ezek. 1:15); the Prophet
has come to the rebellious house (Ezek. 2:3); he has
eaten the book of her fate (Ezek. 2:9); the seven years
of astonishment are finished (Ezek. 3:15); the sieges of
390 years and 40 years are at an end (Ezek. 4:5, 6); the
image of jealousy has been disclosed (Ezek. 8:3); the
man with the writer's inkhorn has performed his task
(Ezek. 9:2); the removing is at an end (Ezek. 14:21);
the sword has been doubled the third time (Ezek. 21:15);
the point of the sword has been made bright (Ezek.
21:15); ecclesiasticism has been delivered unto brutish
persons (Ezek. 21:31); the desire of the faithful servant's
eyes has failed (Ezek. 24:16); the stilled voice is speaking
again.&mdash;Ezek. 33:22.
</p>

<p>
The seven thunders have uttered their voices (Rev.
10:3); the seven last plagues have been poured out (Rev.
15:6); the voices of the three signs have been uttered
(Exod. 4:3-9; Z. '07-276); the ribband of blue (the Vow)
has done its work (Num. 15:38); the tares and wheat
have been separated (Matt. 13:30; C. 139); the net has
been drawn to the shore and the fish sorted (Matt. 13:48;
C. 214); the ambassadors of peace have wept bitterly
(Isa. 33:7); the foolish virgins have had their sound sleep
(Matt. 25:5; C. 92); the seven seals have been opened
(Rev. 8:1); the seven angels have sounded (Rev. 10:7;
B. 149); the nations are angry (Rev. 11:18); the winepress
of God's wrath has been trodden (Rev. 14:20); the
horses and chariot of fire have come for Elijah (2 Kings
2:11); the chariots are running like lightning (Nah. 2:4;
C. 272); the mighty angel has flown in the midst of
heaven (Rev. 14:6); the false worshippers have been tormented
<pb n='071'/><anchor id='Pg071'/>
with fire and brimstone (Rev. 14:10); Behemoth
and Leviathan have been beheld doing their work (Job
40:15-23; 41:1-34); the secret of the Lord has been shown
(Psa. 25:14; Z. '97-255); the Lord is judging His people
and gathering His saints (Psa. 50:4, 5; D. 75; B. 164);
the lightnings have enlightened the world (Psa. 97:4;
A. 171); the hills have melted like wax (Psa. 97:5; D. 551);
the banner has been lifted on the high mount (Isa. 13:2;
D. 40); the tables are full of vomit (Isa. 28:8; Z. '07-91);
the dumb dogs have failed to bark (Isa. 56:10; F. 287);
the silver has been cast into the streets (Ezek. 7:19); the
nations have all been shaken (Hag. 2:7; D. 528); the rain,
floods and winds have come on Christendom (Matt. 7:27;
Z. '06-95); the King has come in to see the guests (Matt.
22:11; C. 197); the speechless one has been bound hand
and foot and cast out (Matt. 22:13; C. 201); the Master
is reckoning with His servants (Matt. 25:19; F. 419); the
seas and the waves are roaring (Luke 21:25; D. 551); the
144,000 are standing on the sea of glass singing (Rev.
15:3; C. 237); the Devil has risen up against himself
(Mark 3:26; F. 641); the blood, fire and vapor of smoke
are here (Acts 2:19; D. 592); the brethren are not in
darkness and all others are (1 Thes. 5:4; B. 121); the
teachers having itching ears have turned unto fables (2
Tim. 4:3; 4; F. 287; Z. '07-308); the twenty-four elders have
cast their crowns before the throne (Rev. 4:10); the predicted
scoffing has taken place (2 Pet. 3:3; B. 167); the laborers
have received their penny (Matt. 20:8); and these
are but 88 of the proofs hastily collected.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And knock.</hi>&mdash;<q>The knock, or proclamation of the Lord's
Presence, as indicated by the Old Testament prophecies,
has been given since 1875 and is still being given.</q>&mdash;Z. '04-124;
Lu. 12:36; Cant. 5:2-6.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>If any man hear My voice.</hi>&mdash;<q>The knock is to be the
evidence of the Presence; and the servants are not to
know in advance, but are to know at the time of the arrival
and that without seeing.</q>&mdash;Z. '04-123.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[And] I WILL BOTH open the door.</hi>&mdash;When once we
give the Lord a welcome to our hearts, how He does open
the doors to joys we ne'er before knew!
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[I will] AND come in to him.</hi>&mdash;<q>If a man love Me, he
will keep My words: and My Father will love him, and We
will come unto him, and make Our abode with him.</q>&mdash;John
14:23.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And will sup.</hi>&mdash;Take the evening meal.&mdash;Lu. 12:37.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>With him.</hi>&mdash;The Master Himself is feasting on the same
joys of the Father's Plan that delight our own hearts.
</p>

<pb n='072'/><anchor id='Pg072'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And he with Me.</hi>&mdash;<q>This serving of the servants by the
Master should be understood to be an individual work, and
not merely a collective service and feast.</q>&mdash;Z. '04-124.
</p>

<p>
3:21. <hi rend='sans'>To him that overcometh.</hi>&mdash;<q>Let us not avoid the
Gethsemane moment if it come to us in the Lord's providence,
but let us also with strong cryings and tears look
up to Him who is able to save us out of death by the
glorious First Resurrection; and let us remember that if
we abide in His love, He is able and willing to bring us
off conquerors, yea, more than conquerors through His own
merit.</q>&mdash;Z. '06-348.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Will I grant.</hi>&mdash;If they prove faithful unto death.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To sit with Me.</hi>&mdash;<q>With the early Church, the promises
of Kingdom honor and joint-heirship with the Master were
strong incentives to faithfulness under present trials and
persecutions, which they had been forewarned to expect.</q>&mdash;A. 285.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>In My Throne.</hi>&mdash;<q>God's appointed means of blessing the
world and causing the knowledge of the Lord to come to
every creature.</q>&mdash;A. 91; 1 Cor. 6:2; 2 Tim. 2:12; Rev. 2:26,
27; 22:1.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Even as I also overcame.</hi>&mdash;<q>God sent an angel to comfort
and minister unto Him; to assure Him still of the Divine
favor, and thus to give Him fresh courage, strength of
mind and steadiness of nerve to endure all that was before
Him, even unto death. The bitterness of the mental conflict
was now over, and the light of Heaven shining into
His soul chased away the deep gloom that had hung over
Him like a funeral pall.</q>&mdash;Z. '06-348.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And am set down with My Father in His Throne.</hi>&mdash;<q>The
thousand years of the Millennial Reign will constitute but
a beginning of the exercise of the glory, honor and immortality
of these New Creatures. At its close when the Kingdom
shall be delivered up to <q>God, even the Father,</q> and
to mankind as the glorified agents of the Father to rule
the earth, a still larger sphere for the exercise of their
glory, honor and immortality will open before the New
Creation.</q>&mdash;F. 69; 1 Cor. 15:24-28.
</p>

<p>
3:22. <hi rend='sans'>He that hath an ear.</hi>&mdash;<q>Blessed are your eyes, for
they see; and your ears, for they hear.</q>&mdash;Matt. 13:16.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Let him hear.</hi>&mdash;<q>For verily I say unto you, That many
Prophets and righteous men have desired to see those
things which ye see, and have not seen them; and to hear
those things which ye hear, and have not heard them.</q>&mdash;Matt.
13:17.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>What the Spirit saith unto the churches.</hi>&mdash;Unto the seven
epochs, ending, respectively, in A. D. 73, 325, 1160, 1378,
1518, 1874 and 1918.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='073'/><anchor id='Pg073'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Revelation 4&mdash;The Author Of The Plan</head>

<p>
4:1. <hi rend='sans'>After this.</hi>&mdash;After this first panorama of the seven
stages of the Church had passed.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>I looked, and, behold, a door was opened in Heaven.</hi>&mdash;It
is only as the Lord, who holds the key, opens the door
to the understanding of Heavenly things, that we are able
to comprehend them.&mdash;Matt. 3:16; Ezek. 1:1; Rev. 19:11.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And BEHOLD the first voice which I heard was as it
were of a trumpet talking with me.</hi>&mdash;See comments on
Rev. 1:1; 7:2.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which said, Come up hither.</hi>&mdash;Not that St. John went to
Heaven at that time; he was merely given a vision of
Heavenly things. (Rev. 11:12.) <q>The seer now obtains a
higher spiritual standpoint.</q>&mdash;Cook.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And I will shew thee things which must be hereafter.</hi>&mdash;The
Divine Plan for the permission of evil.
</p>

<p>
4:2. <hi rend='sans'>[And] immediately I was in the spirit.</hi>&mdash;In a
trance condition.&mdash;Acts 10:10; Rev. 1:10.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And, behold, a Throne.</hi>&mdash;The Throne of the Heavenly
Father.&mdash;Isa. 6:1; Ezek. 1:26-28.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Was set.</hi>&mdash;Permanently established. The same word as
in, <q>This Child is <emph>set</emph> for the fall and rising again of many
in Israel.</q> (Luke 2:34.) <q>I am <emph>set</emph> for the defence of the
Gospel.</q>&mdash;Phil. 1:17.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>In Heaven.</hi>&mdash;<q>Whither the Forerunner is for us entered,
even Jesus.</q>&mdash;Heb. 6:20.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And One.</hi>&mdash;Jehovah, <q>the God and Father of our Lord
Jesus Christ</q> (1 Pet. 1:3), the Author of the Divine Plan
for the permission of evil, in the recreation of a perfect
human race, and in the creation of a race of gods, sons of
Himself. <q>God designed to <emph>permit evil</emph>, because, having
the remedy provided for man's release from its consequences,
He saw that the result would be to lead him the
more to love and honor his Creator, who is the source
and fountain of all goodness, and forever to shun that
which brought so much woe and misery.</q> (A. 124.) <q>Not
only are men benefited to all eternity by the experience
gained, and angels by their observation of man's experiences,
but all are further advantaged by a fuller acquaintance
with God's Character as manifested in His Plan.
Had sin not been permitted, the sacrifice of our Lord
<pb n='074'/><anchor id='Pg074'/>
Jesus and of His Church, the reward of which is the Divine
nature, would have been impossible.</q>&mdash;A. 135.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Sat on the Throne.</hi>&mdash;Of the Universe. <q>All can see the
propriety of the Almighty's decision that He shall be
recognized as the Center of authority, wisdom, justice,
love and power; for this is the <emph>truth</emph>, and anything else
would be untruth and to that extent evil, injurious.</q>&mdash;E. <hi rend='italic'>57</hi>,
52; Rev. 7:10; Dan. 7:9.
</p>

<p>
4:3. <hi rend='sans'>And He that sat was to look upon like a jasper.</hi>&mdash;<q>And
the building of the wall of it was of <emph>jasper</emph>: and
the city was pure gold, like unto clear glass. And the
foundations of the wall of the city were garnished with
all manner of precious stones. The first foundation was
<emph>jasper</emph>.</q> (Rev. 21:18, 19.) <q>A precious stone, variegated
with divers colors, and of a very hard quality; some have
been found of a sea-green color.</q> (Diaglott note.) <q>The
ancient <emph>jasper</emph> thus appears to have been frequently translucent,
but the modern is opaque.</q> (McC.) The jasper,
therefore, is supposed to refer to the modern rare and
beautiful green-tinted diamond. The diamond is the hardest
substance known, excelling in brilliancy and beautiful
play of prismatic colors. The crystals of which it is composed
are bounded by <emph>eight</emph> equal equilateral triangles;
<emph>twenty-four</emph> angles in all, constituting a perfect double
pyramid, set base to base. How adorable, how sublime,
how perfect is our God! How impossible to describe Him!
To know Him aright will require eternity. The jasper
seems especially to illustrate His glory, perfection and
<emph>prescience</emph>. (He uses twenty-four elders&mdash;prophecies.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And a sardine stone.</hi>&mdash;<q>The sard, which is a superior
variety of agate, has long been a favorite stone for the
engraver's art. On this stone all the finest works of the
most celebrated artists are to be found; and this not without
good cause, such is its toughness, facility of working,
beauty of color, and the high polish of which it is susceptible,
and which it retains longer than any other gem. The
sardius is the stone now called the carnelian, from its
color, which resembles that of raw flesh. It is supposed to
stop hemorrhage when laid on a fresh wound.</q> (McC.)
The sardius seems especially to illustrate God's love, His
memory of His creatures, and His purpose of a resurrection
for all smitten in Adam and redeemed in Christ. Will
God forget to raise any of His blood-bought? <q>Can a
woman forget her sucking child, that she should not have
compassion on the son of her womb? Yea, they may forget,
yet will I not forget thee. Behold I have graven thee
upon the palms of My hands.</q>&mdash;Isa. 49:15, 16.
</p>

<pb n='075'/><anchor id='Pg075'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And there was a rainbow.</hi>&mdash;<q>The rainbow has always
been an emblem of <emph>peace</emph>. It appears on the cloud as the
storm passes away. It contrasts beautifully with the tempest
that has just been raging. It is seen as the rays of
the sun again appear clothing all things with beauty&mdash;the
more beautiful from the fact that the storm has come.
It is a pledge that the war of the elements has ceased, and
that God smiles again upon the earth. The appearance of
the rainbow around the Throne was a beautiful emblem of
the mercy of God, and of the peace that was to pervade
the world as the result of the events that were to be disclosed
to the vision of John.</q> (Barnes.) The rainbow is
characterized by seven colors&mdash;perfection. (Ezek. 1:28.)
It represents not only the bow of promise for mankind,
but the <emph>peace</emph> of God. It is His <emph>Plan</emph>. <q>From His own vast
inherent resources of power and wisdom, springs the
peace of God. But not from this source alone is the Divine
peace; for peace is the certain concomitant of inherent
goodness. God is the impersonation of every virtue and
every grace; consequently He has the blessed satisfaction
and peace of conscious moral perfection as well as inherent
wisdom and power.</q> (Z. '95-153.) <q>During the seventh
millennium, according to the Divine purpose, it will be the
joyful privilege of our Lord Jesus to fully manifest to all
creatures in Heaven and in earth the Father's glorious
character. Then will the Father rejoice in the grandeur of
His finished work and in the everlasting peace and happiness
of His family in Heaven and in earth, <q>reunited under
one head.</q> (Eph. 1:10, <hi rend='italic'>Diaglott</hi>.)</q>&mdash;Z. '95-155.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Round about the Throne.</hi>&mdash;Justice is <q>the habitation of
Thy Throne.</q> (Psa. 89:14.) <q>God's law is stern Justice,
with no allowances, ready to consume as a fire everything
blemished. Who cannot see that if God could deal with
sinners, and condoning their sins, accept their best endeavors,
though imperfect, there would have been no
necessity for a Redeemer? And thus, to all eternity, there
might be danger of sin on the part of those who had not
already dabbled in it. Seeing this, it does not surprise
us that God, in the interest of all His holy creatures, as
well as for His own pleasure, decides that He will recognize
nothing short of perfection in any creature, and
makes <emph>Justice</emph> the foundation of His Throne.</q>&mdash;E. <hi rend='italic'>481</hi>, 472.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>In sight like unto an emerald.</hi>&mdash;<q>The same with the ancient
<foreign rend='italic'>smaragdus</foreign>; one of the most beautiful of gems, of a
bright green color, without any mixture.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Diaglott.</hi> <q>The
<emph>emerald</emph>, of bright green color, <q>was the most precious gem
in the Roman jeweller's list.... The Romans were
plentifully supplied with the true emerald. The <foreign rend='italic'>smaragdus</foreign>
<pb n='076'/><anchor id='Pg076'/>
of Nero's age must be restricted to the true emerald,
perhaps including the green ruby.</q> (King.)</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Nat. Hist.
of Precious Stones.</hi> The color of the emerald, green, signifies
everlastingness. <q>From everlasting to everlasting
thou art God.</q>&mdash;Psa. 90:2; Ezek. 1:28.
</p>

<p>
4:4. <hi rend='sans'>And round about the Throne.</hi>&mdash;Encompassing it on
all sides&mdash;always in mind&mdash;never out of sight.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[Were] SAW I four and twenty seats.</hi>&mdash;<foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>Thronoi</foreign>, thrones,
places of highest exaltation&mdash;the twenty-four angles (viewpoints)
of the diamond.&mdash;Rev. 4:3,10.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And upon the seats [I saw four and twenty] elders sitting.</hi>&mdash;<emph>Personifications</emph>
of the testimonies of twenty-four
Prophets (Heb. 11:2), who foretold things pertaining to
the Kingdom of God. Not the Prophets themselves are
here referred to. They are not in Heaven. <q>David is not
ascended into the Heavens.</q> (Acts 2:34.) Daniel still
<q>sleeps in the dust of the earth.</q> (Dan. 12:2, 13.) None
of the Prophets are in Heaven: <q>God having provided
some better thing for us, that they without us should not
be made perfect.</q> (Heb. 11:40.) But from the time that
<q>holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy
Spirit</q> (2 Pet. 1:21), the utterances of Enoch, Jacob,
Moses, Samuel, Job, David, Solomon, Isaiah, Jeremiah,
Ezekiel, Daniel, Hosea, Joel, Amos, Obadiah, Jonah, Micah,
Nahum, Habakkuk, Zephaniah, Haggai, Zechariah, Malachi
and John the Baptist, have been witnesses before God
that there shall be <q>Times of Refreshing</q>&mdash;<q>Times of
Restitution.</q>&mdash;Acts 3:19-21.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Clothed in white raiment.</hi>&mdash;All of these men considered
themselves unworthy to be God's mouthpieces. Jacob
said, <q>I am not worthy of the least of all Thy mercies, and
of all the truth which Thou hast shewed unto Thy servant.</q>
(Gen. 32:10.) Moses said, <q>Who am I that I should
go unto Pharaoh, and that I should bring forth the children
of Israel out of Egypt?</q> (Exod. 3:11.) David said, <q>Who
am I, O Lord God? and what is my house, that Thou hast
brought me hitherto?</q> (2 Sam. 7:18.) Solomon said, <q>I
am but a little child: I know not how to go out or come
in.</q> (1 Kings 3:7.) Isaiah said, <q>Woe is me! for I am
undone; because I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell
in the midst of a people of unclean lips.</q> (Isa. 6:5.) Jeremiah
said, <q>Ah, Lord God! behold I cannot speak: for I
am a child.</q> (Jer. 1:6.) Daniel said, <q>This secret is
not revealed to me for any wisdom that I have.</q> (Dan.
2:30.) And John the Baptist said, <q>I have need to be baptised
of Thee, and comest Thou to me?</q> (Matt. 3:14.)
But the Lord knoweth them that are His (2 Tim. 2:19);
and whatever they may think of themselves, if they are
<pb n='077'/><anchor id='Pg077'/>
God's mouthpieces, they are clean. Isaiah's utterances are
spotless in the sight of God&mdash;clothed in white raiment.&mdash;Isa.
6:6, 7.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And [they] had on their heads crowns of gold.</hi>&mdash;The
glory of God&mdash;Love, God's highest attribute. If there are
any prophets that do not have something to say about
God's loving arrangement for Times of Restitution, then
they are not holy. Judged by this standard, how many of
the clergy of our day are holy?&mdash;Acts 3:19-21.
</p>

<p>
4:5. <hi rend='sans'>And out of the Throne proceeded lightnings.</hi>&mdash;<q>How
apt is this figure! Truly like lightning flashes in
the midst of the gloom and perplexity of this cloudy day,
come to men remarkable glimpses of the great principles
of Truth and Righteousness. A flash of lightning from the
obscured Throne discloses here one error, and there another,
and another. It is remarkable that these lightning
flashes are continually calling attention to the Word of
God, to the Golden Rule. It seems remarkable, too, how
often in these days of war and stress <emph>worldly</emph> men are
drawing attention to the prophecies of the Scriptures.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-339;
Rev. 8:5; 16:18.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>AND VOICES.</hi>&mdash;<q>As a result of God's lightning flashes
which are enlightening the world, there are ominous mutterings
of dissatisfaction, unrest. The lightning flashes
are revealing the corruption in the world, the dishonesty
in high places; with conflicting ideas, voices, theories and
threats, <q>the nations are angry,</q> <q>the heathen [Gentiles,
peoples] rage,</q> and the whole earth trembles from the din
of a wordy conflict and from the blows which even now
are beginning to arouse the world.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-340.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And thunderings [and voices.]</hi>&mdash;<q>We hear the thunder
tones of judgment that <q>call the earth from the rising of
the sun unto the going down thereof</q> (Psa. 50:1); we see
the whole earth now in the shaking process which will
eventuate in the complete overthrow of all existing institutions,
systems and governments. Present events indeed
speak in trumpet tones.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-340; Ex. 19:16; Rev. 8:5;
11:19; 16:18.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And there were seven lamps of fire burning before the
Throne, which are the seven Spirits of God.</hi>&mdash;Perfect
knowledge.&mdash;Rev. 1:4; 3:1.
</p>

<p>
4:6. <hi rend='sans'>And before the Throne.</hi>&mdash;In the earth, and everywhere
throughout the Universe.&mdash;Rev. 5:6.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>There was AS a sea of glass.</hi>&mdash;<q>The troubled surface
which Daniel and Isaiah beheld (Dan. 7:2, 3; Isa. 57:20)
became when seen before the Throne of God, calm and
clear; reflecting as from a mirror, every fulfilment of the
Divine purposes.</q> (Cook.) (Rev. 21:18, 21; Ex. 24:10.)
<pb n='078'/><anchor id='Pg078'/>
The sea (godless conditions about them) has been a means
of purifying earth's future priests.&mdash;1 Ki. 7:23-26, 38, 39.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Like unto crystal.</hi>&mdash;Indicating that nothing escapes
God's notice; all is transparent. <q>For centuries skeptics
have been disposed to smile incredulously at the words of
our Lord, <q>Enter into thy closet; and when thou hast shut
thy door, pray to thy Father which is in secret; and thy
Father which <emph>seeth in secret</emph> shall reward thee openly.</q>
(Matt. 6:6.) Now that an electric ray can be passed
through opaque substances, such as paper, wood, cloth,
leather, aluminium, animal flesh, etc., can these scientists
any longer mock at Christians for <q>credulity,</q> because we
believe that <q>All things are naked and opened unto the
eyes of Him with whom we have to do</q>? (Heb. 4:13.) <q>He
that formed the ear shall He not hear? He that formed
the eye shall He not see?</q> Now we begin to see how it is
that <q>There is nothing covered that shall not be revealed;
and hid, that shall not be known.</q></q>&mdash;Z. '96-27; Ezek. 1:22.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And in the midst of the Throne.</hi>&mdash;Woven into its very
fabric.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And round about the Throne.</hi>&mdash;Completely encircling and
enveloping it.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Were four beasts.</hi>&mdash;<q>Living ones</q> (<hi rend='italic'>Diaglott</hi>.); the four
immortal attributes of Justice, Power, Love and Wisdom.&mdash;Ezek.
1:5, 6.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Full of eyes before and behind.</hi>&mdash;Seeing clearly everything
that will ever occur in the future, and everything
that has ever transpired in the past.&mdash;Ezek. 10:4, 12.
</p>

<p>
4:7. <hi rend='sans'>And the first beast.</hi>&mdash;Justice was the attribute first
manifested toward our sinful race. <q>God has found it
necessary to perform the unpleasant duties of discipline;
and though all the while His fatherly love was preparing
to bless the deceived and fallen ones when the purposes
of redemption should restore the repentant to His favor,
Love must be veiled while only stern, relentless Justice
could be manifested. This has been no happifying duty.</q>&mdash;Z. '95-154.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Was like a lion.</hi>&mdash;The characteristics of the lion illustrate
this attribute: The teeth are of the highest carnivorous
type, adapted to seizing and holding firmly. Although
occasionally seen abroad during the day, especially in wild
and desolate regions, the <emph>night</emph> (Psa. 30:5) is the period
of its greatest activity. The usual pace of a lion is a
walk; and, though apparently rather slow, yet he is able
to get over a good deal of ground in a short time. As a
rule, he kills only when hungry or attacked, and not for
the mere pleasure of killing.&mdash;Ezek. 1:10; 10:14.
</p>

<pb n='079'/><anchor id='Pg079'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the second beast.</hi>&mdash;Power, exhibited in the Flood,
was the second of God's attributes manifested to man.
<q>God, the Creator of all things, is also the competent Sustainer
of all things. In silent grandeur, from age to age,
the whole physical Universe fulfils His will, without a
suspicion of disorder or mishap; and the same Power is
pledged for its sustenance throughout the eternal future.</q>&mdash;Z. '95-153;
Ezek. 1:10.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Like a calf.</hi>&mdash;With the Hebrews the calf (young ox) was
the emblem of Power, the attribute of God with which
they were principally acquainted. As an agricultural people,
they were brought in frequent contact with it, the
strongest of all the domestic animals. They were brought
out of Egypt by a <q>mighty power and a stretched out
arm</q> (Deut. 9:29); and when they sought to make a representation
of it, the form selected was a golden calf.&mdash;Deut.
9:16-21.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the third beast.</hi>&mdash;Love, exhibited in the Father sending
His Only-Begotten Son to die that we might live, was
the third of God's attributes manifested to man. <q>Our
recovery cost the sacrifice of the dearest treasure of His
heart, and the subjection of this Beloved One to the most
abject humiliation, ignominy, suffering and death. Ah, did
the Father let Him go on that errand of mercy without the
slightest sensation of sorrowful emotion? had He no appreciation
of the pangs of a father's love when the arrows of
death pierced the heart of His beloved Son? When our
dear Lord said, <q>My soul is exceeding sorrowful, even unto
death,</q> and again, <q>Father, if it be possible, let this cup
pass from Me: nevertheless, not as I will, but as Thou
wilt,</q> did it touch no sympathetic chord in the heart of the
Eternal? Yea, verily.</q>&mdash;Z. '95-154.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Had a face [as] LIKE a man.</hi>&mdash;The embodiment of love.
(A. 174.) <q>Close your eyes for a moment to the scenes of
misery and woe, degradation and sorrow that yet prevail
on account of sin, and picture before your mental vision
the glory of the perfect earth. Not a stain of sin mars the
harmony and peace of a perfect society; not a bitter
thought, not an unkind look or word; love, welling up
from every heart, meets a kindred response in every other
heart, and benevolence marks every act. Think of all the
pictures of comparative health and beauty of human form
and feature that you have ever seen, and know that perfect
humanity will be of still surpassing loveliness. The
inward purity and mental and moral perfection will stamp
and glorify every radiant countenance.</q>&mdash;A. 191; Ezek. 1:5.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the fourth beast.</hi>&mdash;Wisdom, as exhibited in the
Father's Plan, now unfolded before our delighted gaze, is
<pb n='080'/><anchor id='Pg080'/>
the fourth, and complete, manifestation of God to man.
<q>He is never confused, bewildered, perplexed, anxious or
careworn, or in the least fearful that His plans will miscarry
or His purposes fail; because all power and wisdom
inhere in Him. The scope of His mighty intellect reaches
to the utmost bounds of possibility, comprehends all
causes and discerns with precision all effects; consequently
He knows the end from the beginning, and that,
not only upon philosophical principles, but also by intuition.
As the Creator of all things and the Originator of all
law, He is thoroughly acquainted with all the intricate subtleties
of physical, moral and intellectual law, so that no
problem could arise, the results of which are not manifest
to His mind. <q>God is light, and in Him is no darkness
at all.</q> (1 John 1:5.)</q>&mdash;Z. '95-153.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Was like a flying eagle.</hi>&mdash;Of all known birds, the eagle
flies the highest and with the greatest rapidity. <q>As the
heavens are higher than the earth, so are My ways higher
than your ways and My thoughts than your thoughts.</q>
(Isa. 55:9.) The ones attracted to Present Truth are the
eagles, the far-sighted ones that <q>behold the land that is
very far off.</q> (Matt. 24:28; 2 Pet. 1:9; Isa. 33:16, 17; Psa.
103:5.) In the training of its young the eagle manifests
wisdom of high order: <q><q>As an eagle stirreth up her nest</q>
(she mixes the thorny outside with the downy inside, so
that the eaglets will leave it and learn to fly), so God, by
His testing providences makes the place of rest one of
unrest to us, and thus lures us out to trust ourselves to
His care and guidance over untried ways.</q>&mdash;Z. '04-116.
</p>

<p>
4:8. <hi rend='sans'>And the four beasts.</hi>&mdash;Justice, Power, Love and
Wisdom.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Had each of them six wings about him.</hi>&mdash;<q>Above it stood
the seraphims (Justice, Power, Love and Wisdom): each
one had six wings, and with twain he did fly. And one
cried to another, and said, Holy, holy, holy, is the Lord of
Hosts: the whole earth is full of His glory.</q> (Isa. 6:2,
3.) <q>The vision of Isaiah is a prophecy of the future,
when the <q>glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all
flesh shall see it together</q> in the establishment of the
Kingdom of God during the Millennium. (Isa. 40:5.) Only
from this prophetic standpoint would the words of the
seraphim be true; for the whole earth has never yet been
filled with the Lord's glory; but on the contrary, the earth
is full of sin and violence, and every evil work.</q> (Z. '98-305.)
Six is a symbol of imperfection, and in the light of the
foregoing seems to refer to the six thousand years of the
permission of evil, the theme of the entire Book of Revelation.
For the first two thousand years, from the fall to
<pb n='081'/><anchor id='Pg081'/>
the covenant with Abraham, God's face was almost entirely
hidden from man. For the next two thousand years, until
the death of Christ, it was not apparent how the place of
God's feet, His footstool, should ever be made glorious.
(Isa. 60:13; 66:1.) But since then, for two thousand years,
God's Love has been manifest to all, and <q>the earnest expectation
of the creature waiteth for the manifestation of
the sons of God</q> (Rom. 8:19), to set up the Kingdom, the
Golden Age, for which we all so long have prayed. (Matt.
6:10.) The wings operate in pairs.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And they were full of eyes within.</hi>&mdash;Nothing has transpired,
or will ever transpire, without God's knowledge. In
the past six thousand years, whether hidden or partially
revealed, God's Justice, Power, Love and Wisdom, have
been in touch with all of earth's affairs.&mdash;Ezek. 10:12.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And they HAVE NO rest [not] day and night.</hi>&mdash;Not eternal
idleness, but eternal work in the interest of others will
be our reward. <q>My Father worketh until now, and I
work.</q> (John 5:17.) <q>I must work the works of Him that
sent Me, while it is day: the night cometh when no man
can work.</q> (John 9:4.) <q>We are His workmanship, created
in Christ Jesus unto good works.</q> (Eph. 2:10.) <q>It is God
which worketh in you both to will and to do.</q> (Phil. 2:13.)
<q>We are laborers together with God.</q> (1 Cor. 3:9.)
<q>Workers together with Him.</q> (2 Cor. 6:1.) <q>Who shall
change the Body of our humiliation, that it may be fashioned
like unto His glorious Body, according to the working
whereby He is able to subdue all things unto Himself.</q>&mdash;Phil.
3:21.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Saying, Holy, holy, holy, HOLY, HOLY, HOLY, HOLY,
HOLY.</hi>&mdash;The Sinaitic MS. repeats the word <q>holy</q> eight
times. (See Rev. 4:3.) In the seventh thousand-year
Day God will bring all things to perfection through The
Christ, yet it is the eighth Day that marks the complete
separation from the old order of things. The Jewish
child was circumcised on the eighth day (Luke 1:59;
Phil. 3:5); seven days a sheep was to be with its dam,
and on the eighth given to the Lord (Exod. 22:30); the
eighth day of the Feast of Tabernacles was to be a holy
convocation unto the Lord. (Lev. 23:36, 39.) In the eighth
thousand-year Day of mankind's history on the earth, circumcision
of the heart will be complete in all, all the
sheep will have been turned over to the Father, and the
holy convocation of eternity will have begun, <q>the grand
epoch when there shall be no more sighing, no more crying,
no more pain and no more dying, because God's work
of creation shall then have been completed so far as this
earth is concerned.</q>&mdash;F. 51.
</p>

<pb n='082'/><anchor id='Pg082'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Lord God Almighty.</hi>&mdash;Jehovah. This scene is located in
Heaven, where even the Son Himself is subject unto the
Father.&mdash;1 Cor. 15:28.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which was.</hi>&mdash;The great First Cause.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And is.</hi>&mdash;The great <q>I AM.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And is to come.</hi>&mdash;And evermore shall be.
</p>

<p>
4:9. <hi rend='sans'>And when those beasts.</hi>&mdash;Justice, Power, Love and
Wisdom.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Give.</hi>&mdash;Shall eternally continue to give, so the Greek
indicates.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Glory and honor and thanks to Him that sat on the
Throne.</hi>&mdash;Their united testimony to the perfection of His
character in all its attributes, as they are now doing, since
His Wisdom has been unveiled.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Who liveth for ever and ever, AMEN.</hi>&mdash;And will forever
use those attributes in the blessing of all the willing
and obedient throughout the Universe.
</p>

<p>
4:10. <hi rend='sans'>The four and twenty elders.</hi>&mdash;The personifications
of the messages of the twenty-four Prophets who foretold
the coming Kingdom of God.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Fall down before Him that sat on the Throne.</hi>&mdash;Unitedly
bear witness to His perfect ability to foretell the future.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And worship Him that liveth for ever and ever, AMEN.</hi>&mdash;Magnify
His perfect Justice, Power, Love and Wisdom.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And cast.</hi>&mdash;Shall eternally continue to cast, so the Greek
indicates.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Their crowns before the Throne, saying.</hi>&mdash;(1) <hi rend='italic'>Enoch</hi> was
the first of the holy Prophets; and according to the Apostle
Jude he prophesied of the coming reign of Christ and His
glorious Bride, to judge the world, saying: <q>The Lord
cometh with a myriad of His saints, to execute judgment.</q>
(Jude 14, 15.) That there shall be such a glorious and
blessed Judgment Day, full of hope and joy for all the
world, the Apostle Paul says is definitely decreed in the
counsels of God, <q>whereof He hath given assurance,</q>
grounds for confident, joyful anticipation, <q>unto all men.</q>
(Acts 17:31.) When that happy time comes, <q>the inhabitants
of the world will learn righteousness</q> (Isa. 26:9),
and <q>the poor of the people will be lifted up</q> (Psa. 72:2-4,
12-14.) It will be the long-promised poor man's chance.
</p>

<p>
(2) <hi rend='italic'>Jacob</hi> was one of the holy Prophets; and in Gen.
49:10 he says, <q>The sceptre shall not depart from Judah
nor a lawgiver from between his feet, until Shiloh come;
and unto Him shall the gathering of the people be.</q> The
sceptre means the right to rule, the title to power; and
Shiloh means peacemaker. So this prophecy is merely another
way of saying that Judah would be the ancestor of
the great Lawgiver, the great <q>Prince of Peace</q> into
<pb n='083'/><anchor id='Pg083'/>
whose hands God, in due time, will <q>give the heathen for
an inheritance,</q> <q>that they may all call upon the name of the
Lord to serve Him with one consent.</q>&mdash;Psa. 2:8; Zeph. 3:9.
</p>

<p>
(3) <hi rend='italic'>Moses</hi>, as a historian, recorded God's original purpose
to give man dominion over the earth (Gen. 1:28); His
declaration to the serpent that the Seed of the woman
should bruise its head (Gen. 3:15); the promise to Abraham
that in him all the families of the earth shall be
blessed (Gen. 12:3); that Abraham's inheritance should be
an earthly one (Gen. 13:15); and an everlasting one (Gen.
17:8); that all the nations of the earth shall be blessed
in him (Gen. 18:18); that in his Seed shall all the nations
of the earth be blessed (Gen. 22:18); to Isaac, that in his
Seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed (Gen.
26:4); to Jacob, that in his Seed shall all the families of
the earth be blessed (Gen. 28:14); to Jacob again, that he
should be a joint-heir with Abraham and Isaac of the land
of Canaan (Gen. 35:12); by the sacrifices after the day of
atonement was typically shown the perfection of mankind
in the Millennium (Lev. 1:5); by the glory appearing unto
all the people was foretold their future release from sin
and death (Lev. 9:23); by the acceptance of a goat as a
sin-offering for the people we see blessings of life for the
world after the Church's career is finished (Lev. 16:15);
and by the sounding of the jubilee trumpet, the proclamation
of liberty to the captives and the return of every man to
his possession, we see the world's restoration to the image
and likeness of God. (Lev. 25:10.) As a Prophet, his declarations
show that throughout the Gospel Age God would
raise up a great Prophet and Deliverer like unto himself
(The Christ), to whom shall all the people give heed in the
Millennial Age (Deut. 18:15, 19); and that this great Deliverer
then would set before them life, if obedient, and
death, if disobedient.&mdash;Deut. 30:15.
</p>

<p>
(4) <hi rend='italic'>Samuel</hi>, as a historian, recorded Hannah's prophecy,
<q>The Lord killeth and maketh alive; He bringeth
down to hell and bringeth up.</q> (1 Sam. 2:6.) This is one
of the first places in the Bible where we are shown that
what goes into hell does not necessarily stay there. Another
instance, in which Samuel foretold pictorially the
coming of the better King, was in the case of the coronation
of King Saul. Saul had been selected king, but had
an attack of bashfulness; and when they had searched,
they found him behind the baggage. The record is, <q>They
ran, and fetched him thence; and when he stood among
the people, he was higher than any of the people from his
shoulders and upward. And Samuel said, See ye him
whom the Lord hath chosen, that there is none like him
<pb n='084'/><anchor id='Pg084'/>
among the people? And all the people shouted and said,
God save the king.</q> (1 Sam. 10:17-24.) Saul was God's
choice for king; his name means <q>desired,</q> and in this
he typified Christ, the <q>desire of all nations.</q> This incident
looks forward to the time when all the people of the world
will say of Christ, <q>Oh! who is like unto our God? Lo!
This is our God; this is our King; this is the One we have
waited for; He is head and shoulders, as a ruler, above
all kings and rulers we have had.</q>
</p>

<p>
(5) <hi rend='italic'>Job</hi>, after the Sabeans had made off with his oxen
and asses, after a bolt of lightning had burned up his
sheep, after the Chaldeans had stolen his camels and murdered
his servants, after a whirlwind had blown down his
house and killed all his children, after he was covered
with boils from head to foot, after his wife had gone back
on him, and after his three remaining friends tried to
prove to him that he was a hypocrite, prayed that he
might go to hell and stay there until God's wrath should
be past, and that then God would remember him in resurrection.
(Job 14:13-15.) Job records Elihu's prophetic
statement that when the Messenger of the Covenant has
returned, death will cease and men not need to go into
the tomb. (Job 33:19-30.) Job also describes the steam
engine&mdash;stationary, railway and marine.
</p>

<p>
The following is a corrected translation of Job 40:15 to
41:34, with comments thereon from the pen of one of
Pastor Russell's followers: <q rend='pre'>Behold now one with great
heat [the stationary steam engine], which I have made to
be with thee; he will consume fodder [peat, wood, coal]
as do cattle. Behold now his strength is in his loins
[boiler plates], and his power is within the parts bent in
a circle [boiler shell] of his belly. His tail [smoke stack&mdash;opposite
the feeding end] will set upright like a cedar; the
couplings of his leaping parts [connecting rods, pitmans]
will be clamped together. His bones are tubes of copper;
his solid bones [grate bars] are as hammered-out bars of
iron. He is the greatest of the ways of power. He that
made him [the Lord] can make His sword [Word] to approach
unto [reveal] him. [Isa. 27:1, 2.] He shall rest
under thin shelter [steam jackets] within a covering of
fibrous reeds [jute] and clay [mortar]. The willows of
the valley [the trees overhead] will enclose him around
about Behold [as a pumping engine] he will drink up an
overflowing river without much exertion; he will cause the
people to trust [that their cellars will keep dry], though
a Jordan should rush forth over its border. He will gather
it up in his fountains by means of traps and with a perforated
nozzle.</q>
</p>

<pb n='085'/><anchor id='Pg085'/>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Thou wilt lengthen out leviathan [the locomotive] with
a hook [automatic coupler] or with a snare [coupling-pin]
which thou wilt cause his tongue [coupling-link] to drop
down. Wilt thou not place a ring [piston] in his nostrils
[cylinders] or pierce through his cheeks [piston-ends]
with a staff [piston-rod]? Will he make repeated supplication
unto thee [to get off the track]? Or will he utter
soft tones unto thee [when he screeches with the whistle]?
Will he make a covenant with thee, that thou mayest take
him for a servant forever [without repairs]? Wilt thou
play with him as with a bird [make him whistle at will]?
Or wilt thou bind [enslave] him for thy maidens [so that
you can take them to a picnic or convention]? Companies
[of stockholders] will feast upon him [his earnings]; they
will share him among speculators. [Psa. 74:14.] Thou
wilt fill his skin with pointed irons [bolts], and his head
with a cabin of fishermen [a cab similar to the cabins on
fishing vessels]. Place thy hand upon him, be mindful of
the conflict [raging within the boiler] and thou wilt add no
further questions. Behold, his confidence [boiler] being
deceived [not properly supplied with water], shall not at
once his mighty form be spread asunder [by an explosion]?
There is none so bold that he will stir him up [to
run at his very highest possible speed], and none who will
then place himself before him [to be run over]. Who will
compete with this one and endure [pass him on the
track]? Under the whole heaven, none, unless [one like]
himself.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I will not pass in silence his members, nor the cause of
his mighty forces, nor the beauty of his equipment. Who
can strip off the facings of his jacket? Who can penetrate
between the double lap of his shield [the overlapping sections
of the boiler plates]? Who can force open the doors
of his shield [the boiler ends]? The circuits of his teeth
[rows of rivets] are formidable. His strength depends on
courses of shields [sections of plates] closed up tightly
with a seal [calked]. They shall join one upon another
so that a hiss of air [steam] shall not escape from between
them. One to the other shall adhere. They will be
welded together that they cannot be sundered. In his
sneezing [when he puffs from the cylinders] light will
shine, a flood of light pervading the mass of vapors: and
his eyes [headlights] will be as the eyelashes of the morning
[as rays of light from the rising sun]. Out of his
mouth [fire-door] will leap forth flaming torches, and
[from the smoke stack] glowing sparks will slip themselves
away. From his nostrils [cylinders] will issue forth
vapor as from a boiling pot or caldron. His inhaling
<pb n='086'/><anchor id='Pg086'/>
[forced draft] will vivify burning coals, and a flame will
leap forth from his mouth. Within his neck abideth
strength, and a desolation will dance with joy [become a
prosperous community] at his presence. The separable
parts of his body are connected together; all will be made
fast upon him; nothing will be shaky. His heart will be
indurated similar to a stone, and will be firm as a piece of
the lower [rocks]. When at his full speed the most courageous
will fear [lest], from accidents, they lose themselves.
When dryness exalteth him [or renders him furious],
he will not have power to withhold; the curved
vault [fire box] being caused to tear away, and also the
armor. He will esteem iron as straw, and brass as rotten
wood. The archer cannot make him flee; missiles [of
war] will be turned unto him as chaff. The [strokes of a]
hammer will be esteemed as chaff; he will rejoice at the
poking of the fireman. Hewed [or notched] timbers of the
craftsman [ties] are under him; he will spread an embankment
[or trench] upon the mire. He will [as a marine
engine] cause deep [places] to become as a boiling
pot [about his propellers]; he will make the sea to appear
like boiling ointment. He will make a path to shine after
him; one will think the deep to be growing gray. [Psa.
104:26; Isa. 27:1.] Upon the earth there is not his like&mdash;he
that is [so] constructed that he can fear nothing. He
can oversee [control by his work] all that which is great;
he is indeed king over all conceptions of power.</q>
</p>

<p>
(6) <hi rend='italic'>David</hi> foresaw a time when all the ends of the
world shall remember and turn unto the Lord; and all the
kindreds of the nations shall worship before Him (Psa.
22:27); that after this dark night of weeping will come a
morning of joy (Psa. 30:5); that the meek shall inherit
the earth (Psa. 37:11); that those who are now the King's
enemies shall be converted and praise Him for ever and
ever (Psa. 45:5, 17); that wars shall cease to the ends of
the earth and the Lord alone be exalted (Psa. 46:10); that
the ignominious shall come forth from the grave and the
upright shall have dominion over them in the morning
(Psa. 49:14); that the Lord will be the confidence of all
the ends of the earth (Psa. 65:5); that His saving health
will be made known among all nations, that all the nations
shall praise Him, and that He will judge and govern them
righteously at the time the earth shall yield her increase
(Psa. 67:1-7); that the people shall be scattered that delight
in war (Psa. 68:30); that peace shall come to the
people, that the poor shall be delivered from the oppressor,
that the flesh, which, as dried grass is ready to die, shall
be given new life and that the fruits of the earth shall
<pb n='087'/><anchor id='Pg087'/>
shake like a forest (Psa. 72:3, 4, 6, 16); that the poor and
needy will be delivered out of the hand of the wicked
(Psa. 82:4); that mercy and truth will meet, righteousness
and peace kiss each other and truth spring out of the
earth when righteousness looks down from Heaven (Psa.
85:10, 11); that all nations the Lord has made shall come
and worship before Him and glorify His name (Psa. 86:9);
that He will say, Return, to the men He has turned into
destruction (Psa. 90:3); that the world shall be established
so that it shall not be moved (Psa. 93:1); that the heavens,
earth, seas, fields and trees of the wood shall rejoice because
the Lord is coming to judge the earth with righteousness
and the people with His truth (Psa. 96:11-13); that all
the earth shall join in a joyful noise to the Lord, songs of
praise, harps, psalms, trumpets and cornets, while the
seas, floods and hills clap their hands because He comes
to judge the earth (Psa. 98:4-9); and that the foundations
of the earth have been laid so that it shall not be removed,
but be forever the home of a perfect, happy human race.&mdash;Psa.
104:5.
</p>

<p>
(7) <hi rend='italic'>Solomon</hi> declared that the upright shall dwell in
the land and the perfect shall remain in it (Prov. 2:21);
that the righteous shall be recompensed in the earth
(Prov. 11:31); and that the earth abideth forever.&mdash;Ecclesiastes
1:4.
</p>

<p>
(8) <hi rend='italic'>Isaiah</hi> prophesied that in the last days the Lord's
Kingdom will be established on the ruins of all earthly
kingdoms, and all nations will flow into it to learn His
ways, at which time they will beat their swords into plowshares
and spears into pruninghooks and learn war no
more (Isa. 2:2-4); that of the increase of that new Government
and of peace there shall be no end (Isa. 9:7); that
nothing in the Kingdom will be permitted to hurt or destroy,
all evil dispositions of men and animals being done
away with, the poor and meek being lifted up and the
earth being filled as full with the knowledge of the Lord
as the waters cover the sea (Isa. 11:4-9); that Christ will
become the standard-bearer of the people, that His rest
will be glorious and a highway there provided for the remnant
of the people (Isa. 11:10-16); that the whole earth
shall be at rest and quiet and break forth into singing (Isa.
14:7); that at the time the pillar to the Lord Is recognized
in the world, the world will return to the Lord and He
will be entreated of them and heal them (Isa. 19:22); that
the Lord will make to all people a feast of fat things, doctrines
of joy, well refined, will destroy ignorance and superstition,
swallow up death in victory and wipe away
tears from off all faces; it will cease to be a rebuke to a
<pb n='088'/><anchor id='Pg088'/>
person to admit that he belongs to the Lord, and all the
people will say, Lo, this Is our God; we have waited for
Him and He will save us, and all the high fortresses will
crumble into dust (Isa. 25:6-12); that when the Lord's
judgments are in the earth the inhabitants of the world
will learn righteousness; that then the trusts shall perish
utterly and the dead shall live (Isa. 26:9, 13, 14, 19); that
judgment will be laid to the line, the truth sweep away the
refuge of lies and the agreement of the preachers on the
hell question will be disannulled (Isa. 28:17, 18); that the
spiritually deaf shall get their ears open to understand the
harmonies of God's Word and the eyes of the blind see out
of obscurity and out of darkness, and the crops in the field
be so large they will look like a forest (Isa. 29:17, 18);
that the eyes of them that see shall not be dim, the ears of
them that hear shall hearken and the tongue of the stammerers
be ready to speak plainly; that the skyscrapers
will be turned over to wild asses, along with the forts; that
the people shall dwell in righteousness, quietness and assurance
forever (Isa. 32:3, 4, 14, 17, 18); that the inhabitant
shall not say, I am sick, because the people that dwell
therein shall be forgiven their iniquity.&mdash;Isa. 33:24.
</p>

<p>
Furthermore, he declared that the wilderness and solitary
place shall blossom as the rose, the weak hands and
feeble knees be strengthened, the fearful be encouraged,
the blind have their eyes opened, the deaf have their ears
unstopped, the lame made to leap as an hart, the tongue
of the dumb made to sing; in the wilderness shall waters
break out and streams in the desert; an highway shall be
there by which the unclean may be cleansed of all their
sins amid joy and gladness everlasting (Isa. 35:1-10); that
all the crooked and rough places will be straightened out
(Isa. 40:4); that rivers will open in unexpected places and
the deserts become a forest of useful trees (Isa. 41:18, 19);
that all the prisoners in the great prison-house of death
shall be brought forth (Isa. 42:7); that the new spiritual
powers shall pour down righteousness and the world of
mankind eagerly take it in, to their salvation and everlasting
joy of heart (Isa. 45:8); that God created the earth not
in vain but formed it to be inhabited (Isa. 45:18); that the
Lord will establish the earth and cause the people to inherit
the once desolate heritages, with the result that they
shall be joyful and break forth into singing (Isa. 49:8, 13);
that the redeemed of the Lord (all mankind) shall return
from the tomb and gain salvation with songs and everlasting
joy upon their heads and sorrow and mourning shall
flee away (Isa. 51:11); that the feet are beautiful which
proclaim good tidings of good and publish salvation because
<pb n='089'/><anchor id='Pg089'/>
the King has come to reign (Isa. 52:7); that the
mountains, hills and trees shall rejoice with verdure, and
instead of thorns and briers shall come up fir and myrtles
(Isa. 55:12, 13); that the Lord will make this earth (His
footstool) glorious; violence, wasting and destruction shall
cease, and the people shall all be righteous and dwell in
the land forever (Isa. 60:13, 18, 21); that the stumbling
stones shall be gathered out of the way, and the standard
of Truth be lifted up for the people (Isa. 62:10); that one
who dies at a hundred years shall be considered but an infant;
that the people who build houses shall build them for
themselves and live in them forever among their own vineyards
and other works of their hands (Isa. 65:20-22); and
that all nations and tongues shall be gathered to see God's
glorious character in its true light.&mdash;Isa. 66:18.
</p>

<p>
(9) <hi rend='italic'>Jeremiah</hi> foretold that in the good times coming
mankind should no more walk after the imagination
of an evil heart (Jer. 3:17); that the nations of all the
earth shall come to the new order of things and cheerfully
admit that the teachings of the clergy were chiefly lies
and vanity (Jer. 16:19); that the new Shepherds will
really feed the Lord's sheep, and they shall no more be
dismayed or lacking (Jer. 23:4); that the Lord will give
the people a heart to know Him, and they shall return to
Him with their whole heart (Jer. 24:7); that the children
shall come again from the land of the enemy; that the
children shall no longer suffer for the sins of the parents,
and they shall teach no more every man his neighbor and
every man his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for they
shall all know Him from the least even unto the greatest
(Jer. 31:16, 29, 34); that the Lord will give the people one
heart and one way and make an everlasting covenant with
them, and not turn away from them to do them good; and
they shall not depart from Him (Jer. 32:39, 40); that mankind
will fear and tremble at all the goodness and prosperity
Jehovah shall bring to them when He has pardoned
all their Iniquities and transgressions (Jer. 33:8, 9); that
they shall be at rest and at ease with none to make them
afraid (Jer. 46:27); that the Moabites and Elamites shall
return to their former estate (Jer. 48:47; 49:39); and that
in those days the penitent, together, going and weeping,
shall seek the Lord their God and ask the way to Zion,
saying, Let us join ourselves to the Lord in a perpetual
covenant that shall never be forgotten.&mdash;Jer. 50:4, 5.
</p>

<p>
(10) <hi rend='italic'>Ezekiel</hi> foretold a coming time when the Lord will
take away the stony heart out of the people and give them
hearts that are warm and tender (Ezek. 11:19); that the
Sodomites, the Samaritans and the Jews&mdash;who were twice
<pb n='090'/><anchor id='Pg090'/>
as bad as either of the others&mdash;shall all return to their
former estate, and the Lord will establish His covenant
with them and be pacified towards them (Ezek. 16:55,
61-63); that it will no more be true that the children suffer
for the sins of their parents (Ezek. 18:2); that it will not
be necessary then for anybody to die (Ezek. 18:31, 32);
that the people shall dwell safely and build houses and
plant vineyards with confidence (Ezek. 28:26); that the
Lord will cause the evil beasts to cease out of the land;
and that the people shall dwell safely in the wilderness
and sleep in the woods, the shower will come down in its
season, there shall be showers of blessing, the trees shall
yield their fruit and the earth shall yield its increase and
the people shall dwell safely and none shall make them
afraid (Ezek. 34:25-28); that the Lord will put His Spirit
into the people and cause them to walk in His ways, will
increase the corn, multiply the fruit of the tree and the
increase of the field, and the land that was desolate shall
become like the garden of Eden (Ezek. 36:26, 27, 29, 30,
35); that the people shall have one Shepherd and walk in
His statutes and do them (Ezek. 37:24); and the Lord will
not hide His face from them any more when He has poured
out His Spirit upon them.&mdash;Ezek. 39:29.
</p>

<p>
(11) <hi rend='italic'>Daniel</hi> foretold that the God of Heaven shall set
up a Kingdom which shall never be destroyed, but which
shall break in pieces and consume all other kingdoms, and
which shall stand forever (Dan. 2:44); and the Kingdom
and dominion and the greatness of the Kingdom <emph>under</emph> the
whole heaven shall be given to the saints of the Most High
as an everlasting dominion.&mdash;Dan. 7:27.
</p>

<p>
(12) <hi rend='italic'>Hosea</hi> prophesied food in abundance for the beasts
of the field and the fowls of heaven with the creeping
things of the ground; and that the Lord will break the
bow and sword and the battle out of the earth, and make
all to lie down safely; and that it shall come to pass in
that Day that Jehovah will hear the new powers of spiritual
control and they shall hear the cries of men (Hos.
2:18, 21); that the people shall fear the goodness of the
Lord in the latter days (Hos. 3:5); that after the fifth and
sixth thousand-year Days are past the people will be raised
up and live in the Lord's sight (Hos. 6:2); and He will
ransom them from hell and redeem them from death, and
destroy hell altogether.&mdash;Hos. 13:14.
</p>

<p>
(13) <hi rend='italic'>Joel</hi> prophesied that the Lord will cause the pastures
to spring, the tree to bear her fruit and the fig tree
and the vine to yield their strength, and whosoever shall
call upon the name of the Lord shall be delivered.&mdash;Joel
2:22, 32.
</p>

<pb n='091'/><anchor id='Pg091'/>

<p>
(14) <hi rend='italic'>Amos</hi> was the next one of the holy Prophets; and
we have an inspired comment on one of his prophecies by
the Apostle James in Acts 15:14-18. James says, <q>Simeon
[St Peter] hath declared how God at the first [in the
conversion of Cornelius] did visit the Gentiles to take out
of them a people for His name [the Bride of Christ]. And
to this agree the words of the Prophets [Amos 9:11, 12];
as it is written, After this [after the Bride of Christ has
been selected], I will return and will build again the tabernacle
[the house, royalty or dominion] of David, which is
fallen down; and I will build again the ruins thereof, and I
will set it up [re-establish the Kingdom of God on earth];
that the residue of men [all the rest of the world of mankind]
might seek after the Lord, and all the Gentiles, upon
whom My name is called, saith the Lord who doeth all
these things. Known unto God are all His works from the
beginning of the world.</q>
</p>

<p>
(15) <hi rend='italic'>Obadiah</hi> was the next one of the holy Prophets;
and in the last verse of his short prophecy he says, <q>And
saviors [it is in the plural and refers not only to Jesus
the Head, but to the Church, the members of His Body]
shall come up on Mount Zion [come up into the Heavenly
phase of the Kingdom], and shall judge the mount of Esau</q>
[judge the world]. <q>Know ye not that the saints shall
judge the world?</q>
</p>

<p>
(16) <hi rend='italic'>Jonah</hi> was the next one of the holy Prophets; and
in the fourth chapter we have an interesting picture of
events now transpiring before our eyes. Jonah walked
into the city of Nineveh and said, <q>Yet forty days and
Nineveh shall be overthrown.</q> The prophecy was fulfilled
in forty literal years. But when Jonah saw that things
were not coming out as he expected, he was very angry
and said to the Lord, <q>That is just what I might have expected;
for I knew that Thou art a gracious God, and
merciful, slow to anger, and of great kindness; and I said
so before I left my own country.</q> Jonah went out, sat in
the hot sun on the outside of the city, and began to sulk.
The Lord took pity on him and caused a gourd to grow up
over him, to shelter him from the hot rays of the sun. And
Jonah was exceeding glad because of the gourd. Then
the Lord prepared a worm to smite the gourd; and a strong
east wind blew up and the gourd withered. Jonah's shade
was gone, and he was angrier than ever. The Lord said,
<q>Doest thou well to be angry?</q> and he said, <q>Yes, I do well
to be angry, even unto death.</q> Then the Lord said, <q>Jonah,
thou hast had pity on the gourd that sprung up in a night
and perished in a night; and should not I spare Nineveh,
that great city wherein are more than six score thousand
<pb n='092'/><anchor id='Pg092'/>
persons that cannot discern between their right hand and
their left hand?</q>
</p>

<p>
We live in a day when a class have been preaching that
the world is to be destroyed; and, like Jonah, they have
not properly understood their message. The kind of world
that is to be destroyed is Satan's world, Satan's empire,
arrangement, or order of things&mdash;not our literal earth. The
word world does not always refer to our literal earth. For
instance, when the Apostle James says, <q>The tongue is a
world of iniquity,</q> he does not mean that we have inside
our jaws a little planet that turns over every twenty-four
hours, that has spring, summer, fall, winter, snowstorms,
rainstorms, and a moon revolving about it, with once in
a while a comet and a shower of meteors thrown in for
good measure. When they think about the Panama Canal,
and the wonderful works of irrigation which are causing
the desert to rejoice and blossom as the rose, and all the
other wonderful achievements of our day, these people are
beginning to see that they have made a mistake and are
now about where Jonah was when he said, <q>That is what I
might have expected, for I know that Thou art a just God,
slow to anger, and plenteous in mercy.</q> They are now
outside the city, and the scorching light of Present Truth
is pretty hot. Meantime the church trust is growing up
to keep off the heat. We are not to have anything to do
with this church federation. <q>Say ye not, A confederacy,
to all them to whom this people shall say, A confederacy.</q>
<q>Take counsel together, and it shall come to naught; speak
the word and it shall not stand; for God is with us.</q> (Isa.
8:10, 12.) Pretty soon something will happen to the church
trust, and their shade will be gone. Then the Lord will
say to them, <q>Oh, you need not feel so badly! You are not
the first people that ever made a mistake. You have made
lots of them, to be sure. You have had pity on the church
trust which grew up in one year and blew up in another
year; and should not I spare the poor world, that as far
as their knowledge of right and wrong is concerned do not
know the difference between their right hand and their
left hand?</q>
</p>

<p>
(17) <hi rend='italic'>Micah</hi> has written of the coming of the Kingdom
of God in the earth, accompanied by the rebuking of strong
nations afar off; that then they shall beat their swords
into plowshares, and their spears into pruninghooks; that
nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall
they learn war any more. But they shall sit every man
under his vine and under his fig tree [not the landlord's];
and none [be they doctors, landlords, employers, sheriffs,
or undertakers] shall make them afraid; that all people
<pb n='093'/><anchor id='Pg093'/>
will walk in the name of our God, and that the first dominion
[lost by Adam in Eden] will be restored to Christ, the
Tower of the Flock.&mdash;Micah 4:1-5, 8.
</p>

<p>
(18) <hi rend='italic'>Nahum</hi> was the next one of the holy Prophets;
and after prophesying in the last verse of the preceding
chapter about the coming of the King with His good tidings
of peace to the sin-burdened earth, he next tells
(Nahum 2:3-6) of an interesting thing that will be a
matter of common everyday experience at the time the
Kingdom is established. He describes a railway train in
motion [not an automobile, as some think], and if we will
be at the trouble to put ourselves in the Prophet's place
we can see just what he saw in his vision and what he has
so interestingly described. First, the Prophet stands looking
at the engine coming toward him, and then says, <q>The
shield [the thing ahead of this great warrior&mdash;the headlight]
is made red [shines brilliantly], the valiant men
[the engineer and the fireman] are dyed scarlet [when the
flames from the firebox illuminate the interior of the cab
at night, as the fireman opens the firedoor to throw in the
coal]. The chariots [the railway coaches] shall be with
[shall be preceded by locomotives that, at night, have the
appearance of] flaming torches, in the Day of Preparation.</q>
</p>

<p>
Next the Prophet takes his place in the train and looks
out of the window, and, seemingly, <q>The fir trees shall be
terribly shaken [the telegraph poles alongside the track
seem to be fairly dancing]. The chariots shall rage in the
streets [a railway is merely an elaborate, scientifically
constructed street, or highway], they shall jostle one
against another in the broad ways [the clanking and bumping
of the cars together is one of the significant items of
railway travel]. They shall seem like torches [a railway
train at night, rushing through a distant field, looks like
nothing so much as a vast torch, going at flying speed],
they shall run like the lightnings.</q> Next the Prophet sees
the conductor coming for his ticket and says, <q>He shall recount
his worthies [the conductor spends his entire time,
almost, counting and recounting his passengers, keeping
them checked up, etc.]; they shall stumble in their walk
[try walking on a rapidly moving train]; they shall make
haste to the wall thereof [to the next city or town] and
the coverer [the train shed, the station] shall be prepared
[the baggageman, expressman, mail wagon, hotel bus, intending
passengers, and friends to meet incoming passengers,
will all be there waiting for the train to come]. The
gates of the rivers shall be opened [the doors of the cars
will be opened and the people will flow out] and the
palace [car] shall be dissolved [emptied].</q>
</p>

<pb n='094'/><anchor id='Pg094'/>

<p>
(19) <hi rend='italic'>Habakkuk</hi> was the next one of the holy Prophets,
and in Hab. 2:14 he says, <q>The earth shall be filled with
the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters
cover the sea.</q> In places, the water in the Pacific Ocean
is seven miles deep. Imagine a condition in which the
knowledge of the glory of God is like that in the earth! It
will be as impossible for a man not to know about God as
it would be for one to be down at the bottom of the ocean
without getting wet.
</p>

<p>
(20) <hi rend='italic'>Zephaniah</hi> foretold that the Lord will starve all
the false gods to death; for all men will worship the one
only and true God, even including the heathen we have
worried so much about (Zeph. 2:11); that after the present
inequitable condition of society has passed away&mdash;been
devoured, not with literal fire but with the fire of the
Lord's jealousy&mdash;there will be no more sectarianism, but
all the people will be taught the pure Truth and worship
the Lord with <emph>one</emph> consent; the liar and deceiver will no
longer be abroad in the land and the people will eat and
rest without fear of disaster, dispossession or death.&mdash;Zeph.
3:9, 13.
</p>

<p>
(21) <hi rend='italic'>Haggai</hi> was the next one of the holy Prophets, and
he says in Hag. 2:7, <q>The desire of all nations shall
come.</q> In Rom. 8:19-22, the Apostle tells us what is the
desire of all nations. He says, <q>The whole creation
groaneth and travaileth in pain, waiting for the manifestation
[showing forth] of the sons of God.</q> It is in the
plural, and means not Jesus only, but all of the Little
Flock. The groaning will not be in vain; for in the same
passage the Apostle says the outcome will be that the
groaning creation shall be delivered from the bondage of
corruption into a glorious liberty from sin and every evil
thing.
</p>

<p>
(22) <hi rend='italic'>Zechariah</hi> prophesied that many nations shall be
joined to the Lord in that Day and be His people and He
will dwell in the midst of them (Zech. 2:11); that when
every man dwells under his own vine and fig tree every
man will love his neighbor and his brother (Zech. 3:10);
that the coming Kingdom will be a Kingdom of Truth, the
people will be God's people and He will be their God in
truth and righteousness; the ground shall give its increase
and the heaven its dews and the Lord will do well to the
people and remove their fears (Zech. 8:3, 8, 12, 15); that
the inhabitants of one city will go to another, saying, Let
us go speedily to pray before the Lord, and to seek the
Lord of Hosts; I will go also. Yea, many people and
strong nations shall come to seek the Lord of hosts and to
pray before the Lord (Zech. 8:21; 22); that the battle bow
<pb n='095'/><anchor id='Pg095'/>
shall be cut off, that the Lord shall speak peace to the
people; corn shall make the young men speak, and new
wine (better doctrines) the maids (Zech. 9:10, 17); that
the Lord shall be King over all the earth and men shall
dwell in it, and there shall be no more utter destruction,
but all shall be holiness unto the Lord.&mdash;Zech. 14:9, 11, 20.
</p>

<p>
(23) <hi rend='italic'>Malachi</hi> foretold that from the rising of the sun
even unto the going down of the same the Lord's name
shall be great among all peoples; and in every place heart
adoration shall be offered to His name (Mal. 1:11); that
the devourer will be rebuked and not be permitted longer
to destroy the fruits of the ground; neither shall your vine
cast her fruit before the time in the field; injurious parasites,
germs and microbes will be a thing of the past.
Crops will be abundant everywhere (Mal. 3:11); and The
Christ, Head and Body, will arise with healing in their
beams, nourishing and bringing the willing to perfection
with the same care as is given to stall-fed cattle&mdash;now receiving
more attention than human beings.&mdash;Mal. 4:2.
</p>

<p>
(24) <hi rend='italic'>John the Baptist</hi> was the next and last of the holy
Prophets, for Jesus said, <q>The Law and the Prophets were
until John.</q> And John, we are told, turned and looked at
Jesus, and said, <q>Behold the Lamb of God, that taketh
away the sin of the world.</q>&mdash;John 1:29; Matt. 11:9, 11.
</p>

<p>
4:11. <hi rend='sans'>Thou art worthy, O Lord OUR LORD AND GOD.</hi>&mdash;<q>The
proper view of the matter shows us the Heavenly
Father perfect in all the attributes of nobility of character;
perfect in Justice, so that the just sentence of His
righteous Law cannot be infracted, even by Himself; perfect
in wisdom, so that His plan and arrangement, not only
with respect to man's creation, but also with respect to
man's salvation, the Atonement, etc., were all so complete
that no contingency or failure could arise, nor any necessity
for change of the Divine Plan; as it is written, <q>I am
the same, I change not, saith the Lord,</q> and <q>Known unto
the Lord are all His works, from the foundation of the
world</q>; perfect also in His Love, than which there could
be no greater love possible, and yet that Love is in full
balance and accord with the other Divine attributes, so
that it could spare the sinner only in harmony with the
just program marked out by Divine Wisdom; perfect also
in Power, so that all His good purposes, good intentions,
just program and loving designs, fully co-ordinated, shall
be executed, and bring the originally designed result; as it
is written, <q>My Word that goeth forth out of My mouth
shall not return to Me void; it shall accomplish that which
I please, and it shall prosper in the thing whereto I sent it.</q>
(Isa. 55:11; Mal. 3:6; Acts 15:18.)</q>&mdash;E. <hi rend='italic'>37</hi>, 34.
</p>

<pb n='096'/><anchor id='Pg096'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To receive glory.</hi>&mdash;All the glory, Greek.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And honor and power.</hi>&mdash;<q>Could this Scripture ever be
fulfilled, could the Divine character ever be appreciated by
intelligent, honest, just and loving hearts, if in any corner
of the Universe there were such orgies and tortures of His
creatures as the creeds of the Darker Ages have set forth?
Surely not!</q>&mdash;B. S. M.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For Thou has created all things.</hi>&mdash;The all things, the
Universe, Greek. <q>Across the vista of ages He saw in His
purpose the glory of an intelligent creation in His own
likeness, established in righteousness and worthy of His
gift of eternal life. He therein foresaw the mutual pleasure
of the Creator and the creature, and with a peaceful
patience He resolved to wait for the glorious consummation.</q>&mdash;Z. '95-154.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And for Thy pleasure they [are and] were created.</hi>&mdash;<q>He
desired that love should respond to love, admiration to admiration,
virtue to virtue, and grace to grace, in the
Creator and the creature, as face answers to face in a
glass. In this natural attitude of the Creator and the
creature generous benevolence and filial gratitude combine
in mutual happiness. God is happy in the realization and
in the exercise of all the noble traits of His glorious character,
which happiness is enhanced by appreciation of the
same on the part of His creatures, and by manifestation
in them of the same qualities and dispositions of mind and
heart. And likewise man must both realize and exercise
the noble endowments of his nature and form a character
modeled after that of his Heavenly Father and meeting
His approval, if he would find that true happiness which
consists in the approval of his own conscience and of his
Creator and Judge, in whose favor is life, and at whose
right hand there are pleasures forevermore.'&mdash;Psa. 16:11.</q>&mdash;Z. '95-167.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>Sun of my soul, my Father dear,</q></l>
<l>I know no night when Thou are near.</l>
<l>O! may no earth-born cloud arise</l>
<l>To hide Thee from thy servant's eyes.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Shield of my soul, though tempests rage,</l>
<l>And 'gainst me hosts of foes engage,</l>
<l>My refuge and my fortress Thou,</l>
<l>Before Thee every foe must bow.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Thy grace and glory Thou dost give</l>
<l>To those who near Thee ever live;</l>
<l>And no good thing dost Thou withhold</l>
<l><q rend='post'>From sheep which stray not from Thy fold.</q></l>
</lg>

</quote>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url="images/img099.png" rend="width: 60%">
    <head>Hindrances To Christian Progress</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url="images/img100.png" rend="width: 80%">
    <head>The Thinking Public Declines To Endorse The Modern Political Preaching</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='097'/><anchor id='Pg097'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Revelation 5&mdash;The Executor Of The Plan</head>

<p>
5:1. <hi rend='sans'>And I saw in the right hand.</hi>&mdash;<q>The Divine Plan,
known only to the Father, Jehovah Himself, was kept in
His own power&mdash;in His own hand&mdash;until some one should
be <emph>proved</emph> worthy to know it, and become its executor as
Jehovah's honored Agent and Representative.</q>&mdash;E. <hi rend='italic'>39</hi>, 36.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of Him that sat on the Throne.</hi>&mdash;<q>He that sits upon the
Throne is Jehovah. The scroll in His right hand is His
Plan for human redemption, sealed from all until One
should be found and proved <q>worthy.</q></q>&mdash;Z. '97-150.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>A book.</hi>&mdash;<q>Not the Bible, but the Divine Plan, with its
times and seasons.</q> (Z. '16-252.) <q>This was the <emph>Mystery</emph>,
the <emph>Secret</emph> of the Lord, unknown to any one but Himself&mdash;His
plan for the salvation of the world.</q>&mdash;Z. '97-256.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Written [within] IN FRONT.</hi>&mdash;The writing in front is
the fulfilment of everything prophesied on the outside.
Every word of every prophecy of God's Word is sure of
fulfilment. <q>Seek ye out the book of the Lord, and read;
no one of these shall fail, none shall want her mate; for
My mouth it hath commanded, and His Spirit it hath gathered
them.</q> (Isa. 34:16.) <q>That scroll contains a record
of everything that is happening now, and all that will
occur throughout the Millennial Age, down to its very
close&mdash;down to the time when every creature in Heaven
and in earth and those in the sea, shall ascribe praise,
honor, glory and dominion to Him that sitteth upon the
Throne and to the Lamb forever.&mdash;Rev. 5:13.</q> (Z. '09-243.)
<q>Among the Orientals the lines began from the right hand
and ran to the left hand; with the Northern and Western
nations, from the left to the right hand; but the Greeks
sometimes followed both directions alternately.</q> (McC.)
</p>

<p>
The Word is plainly written on the outside, where
all may read the words, but cannot understand their significance
without Divine aid. Meantime, from age to age,
the events foretold occur in the manner predicted. The
manner of the writing, some of it from left to right and
some from right to left, enables the fulfilments to follow
the prophecies exactly, item by item, to the last jot and
tittle. Write a word on a sheet of paper and then turn the
paper over and look at it, holding it in front of a good
light. Thus it is with the Word of God. The prophecies
<pb n='098'/><anchor id='Pg098'/>
look strange until the due time has come for holding
them up to the light, and then they become clear. What
could be only imperfectly deciphered until the hindering
seal is broken is no mystery after the seal is broken, because
the book or scroll or chart can be turned about and
held to the light. The fulfilments are seen to fit the
prophecies. If the lines are not clear, then for some reason
we are looking upon that much of the record from
the outside and not from the inside.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And on the backside.</hi>&mdash;<q>Excepting the bare promise
(written on the outside of the scroll) of salvation through
the Seed of the woman, nothing could be known of the
wonderful scheme for human restitution until the Son of
God, having left the glory of the spiritual nature, took
our nature and by the sacrifice of Himself redeemed us
from death. Then, having His righteousness imputed to
us by faith, we are counted worthy to look upon the scroll
as He opens the seals one after another.</q>&mdash;Z. '02-332; Ezek.
2:9, 10.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Sealed with seven seals.</hi>&mdash;<q>The things that were sealed
were not proper to be understood by our Redeemer until
He had received the all-power, after His resurrection. The
execution of God's Plan was then given into His hands.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-253.
</p>

<p>
5:2. <hi rend='sans'>And I saw a strong angel.</hi>&mdash;Personification of the Law.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Proclaiming.</hi>&mdash;In types and shadows, pictures, figures
and symbols.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>With a loud voice.</hi>&mdash;From the fall of Adam onward.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Who is worthy.</hi>&mdash;<q>The inquiry compassed the period
from before Jesus came into the world up to His resurrection
from the grave. God had given the most honorable
One of all the host of Heaven the first opportunity to
prove His worthiness to loose the Scroll of God's great
Plan, and to fulfill its provisions. And He did not
allow the privilege to go by. He accepted it.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-252.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To open the book.</hi>&mdash;<q>The inquiry, <q>Who is worthy to open
the book [scroll] and to loose the seals thereof?</q> had long
been made: for four thousand years, from the giving of
the promise that the Seed of the woman should bruise
the serpent's head, it had been the query&mdash;Who shall be
esteemed, by Jehovah God, to be worthy to perform His
gracious purposes, and thus be honored above all others as
Servant (Messenger) of the Covenant of Grace?</q>&mdash;Z. '97-150.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And to loose the seals thereof.</hi>&mdash;<q>John in the symbol
hears the proclamation, <q>Who is worthy to open the Book
and to loose the seals?</q>&mdash;who is worthy to have committed
to his care <emph>the execution</emph> of the great Divine Plan, wonderful
for its wisdom and love, and its lengths and
<pb n='099'/><anchor id='Pg099'/>
breadths and depths and heights past human comprehension&mdash;that
he may open it and execute it?</q>&mdash;Z. '97-256.
</p>

<p>
5:3. <hi rend='sans'>And no man in Heaven.</hi>&mdash;No angel had been proven
worthy. <q>Which things the angels desire to look into.</q>&mdash;1
Pet. 1:12.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Nor in earth, [neither under the earth].</hi>&mdash;No man on
earth was worthy. <q>There is none righteous; no, not one;
for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God.</q>&mdash;Rom.
3:10, 23.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Was able to open the book.</hi>&mdash;<q>In the picture John looked
to see who the worthy one might be, but none was found
worthy.</q>&mdash;Z. '09-243.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Neither to look thereon.</hi>&mdash;In the light of this Scripture,
who can dare, in his own strength, wisdom or righteousness
to interpret the Word of God or take any part in
the execution of the Plan?&mdash;Heb. 12:18-29.
</p>

<p>
5:4. <hi rend='sans'>And I wept much.</hi>&mdash;<q>It seemed to John too bad
that God should have some great, wonderful purposes
which might come to naught because no one was worthy
to be the Divine executor.</q>&mdash;Z. '09-243.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Because no man.</hi>&mdash;No being in the Universe.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Was found worthy to open and to read the book.</hi>&mdash;<q>When
silence prevailed, and none was found worthy either in
Heaven or on earth (representing the condition of things
prior to the First Advent), John began saying to himself:
Alas! we may never know God's gracious and wise plans for
the welfare of His creatures, because none is found worthy
to know or execute them.</q>&mdash;Z. '97-150; John 1:27; Matt. 8:8.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Neither to look thereon.</hi>&mdash;<q>So it was that, even our Lord
Jesus, prior to the finishing of His sacrifice, as He then
declared, did not know all about the Father's plans, times
and seasons (Mark 13:32.)</q>&mdash;Z. '97-150.
</p>

<p>
5:5. <hi rend='sans'>And one of the elders.</hi>&mdash;The deathbed prophecy of
Jacob. It is the identification of this elder that enables
us to recognize the other twenty-three.&mdash;Rev. 4:10.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Saith unto me.</hi>&mdash;<q>Judah is a lion's whelp. The sceptre
shall not depart from Judah, nor a lawgiver from between
his feet until Shiloh come; and unto Him shall the gathering
of the people be.</q>&mdash;Gen. 49:9, 10.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Weep not: behold, the Lion.</hi>&mdash;<q>The Holy One, and the
Just.</q>&mdash;Acts 3:14; 22:14.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the tribe of Juda.</hi>&mdash;<q>The great prize, for which Israel
had been longing for centuries, was won by the Lion of
the tribe of Judah. (Heb. 7:14.)</q>&mdash;B. 85.
</p>

<p>
<q>For an illustration of latter time assumptions, note the
fact that a late pope, upon ascending the throne, took the
title of Leo XIII, and shortly after subscribed himself <q>Leo
de tribus Juda,</q> i. e., <q>The Lion of the tribe of Judah.</q></q>&mdash;B. 316.
</p>

<pb n='100'/><anchor id='Pg100'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The Root of David.</hi>&mdash;<q>It was not the pre-human Logos,
nor yet the man Jesus, that was David's Lord and David's
Root; but the resurrected Messiah.</q>&mdash;E. <hi rend='italic'>151</hi>, 136; Isa. 11:1;
Rom. 15:12; Rev. 22:16.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Hath prevailed to open the book.</hi>&mdash;<q>When our Lord Jesus
had proven His loyalty to the Heavenly Father by His
obedience, <q>even unto the [ignominious] death of the cross,</q>
then and thereby He did prove Himself worthy of every
confidence and trust.</q>&mdash;E. <hi rend='italic'>39</hi>, 37.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And to loose the seven seals thereof.</hi>&mdash;<q>Great was the
favor bestowed upon the Just One of the tribe of Judah,
in being permitted to open the seals; and great is the
privilege of those who are permitted to look thereon as
the seals are opened.</q>&mdash;Z. '02-332; Rev. 5:2; 6:1.
</p>

<p>
5:6. <hi rend='sans'>And I beheld, [and lo,] in the midst of the Throne.</hi>&mdash;<q>In
the bosom of the Father.</q>&mdash;John 1:18.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And of the four beasts.</hi>&mdash;<q>The express image of His person.</q>&mdash;Heb.
1:3.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And in the midst of the elders.</hi>&mdash;The central theme of
all their prophesies.&mdash;Rev. 4:10.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Stood a Lamb as it had been slain.</hi>&mdash;<q>It was not possible
for Him to know the completeness of the Divine Plan until
after He had demonstrated His worthiness by His obedience
unto death, even the death of the cross.</q>&mdash;Z. '06-39;
Isa. 53:7; John 1:29, 36; Acts 8:32; 1 Pet. 1:19.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Having seven horns.</hi>&mdash;Perfect power. <q>All power is
given unto Me in Heaven and in earth.</q>&mdash;Matt. 28:18;
1 Sam. 2:1, 10; Deut. 33:17; 1 Ki. 22:11.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And seven eyes.</hi>&mdash;Perfect wisdom. <q>In whom are hid
all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge.</q>&mdash;Col. 2:3;
Zech. 3:9; 4:10; Rev. 1:4; 3:1; 4:5; 2 Chron. 16:9.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which are the seven Spirits of God.</hi>&mdash;Or lamps of fire.&mdash;Rev.
4:5.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Sent forth into all the earth.</hi>&mdash;See Rev. 1:4.
</p>

<p>
5:7. <hi rend='sans'>And He came and took the book.</hi>&mdash;<q>To Him was
the scroll or book entrusted, that in due time all the
wonderful provisions of the Divine Plan might be fully
executed in the glorification of the Church and the blessing
of all the families of the earth.</q>&mdash;Z. '06-39.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Out of the right hand.</hi>&mdash;See Rev. 5:1.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of Him that sat upon the Throne.</hi>&mdash;Jehovah. If Jesus
and His Father are a Trinity, <q>One in person, equal in
glory and power,</q> how is it that one has to come to the
other for something, or how can He come to Himself and
take something He already has and give it to Himself?
</p>

<p>
5:8. <hi rend='sans'>And when He had taken the book.</hi>&mdash;His worthiness
to do so having been proven by His resurrection to the
Divine nature.
</p>

<pb n='101'/><anchor id='Pg101'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The four beasts.</hi>&mdash;Justice, Power, Love and Wisdom.&mdash;Rev.
4:6, 7.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And four and twenty elders.</hi>&mdash;Messages of the four and
twenty Prophets.&mdash;Rev. 4:10.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Fell down before the Lamb.</hi>&mdash;Gave their joint homage
and adoration to the Conqueror of sin and death.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Each having [every one of them harps] A HARP.</hi>&mdash;Yielding
the most exquisite harmony that ever fell on mortal
ears.&mdash;Rev. 15:1-4; 4:10.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And golden vials.</hi>&mdash;Incense cups, <q>spoons,</q> similar to
those used at the Golden Altar.&mdash;Ex. 25:29; 30:1-9.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Full of odors.</hi>&mdash;The sweet fragrance of patient hearts,
precious in the Father's memory, pleading for love and
wisdom Divine.&mdash;Psa. 141:2; Ex. 30:34-38; Lev. 16:12, 13;
Lu. 1:9, 10; Acts 10:4.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which are the prayers of saints.</hi>&mdash;Every one of which,
by the Father's arrangement, has been made in the name
of the One here honored.&mdash;John 16:23; Eph. 2:19.
</p>

<p>
5:9. <hi rend='sans'>And they sung a new song.</hi>&mdash;<q>This means that the
Divine Plan as a whole was here made known to Him&mdash;for
He already had knowledge of much of this&mdash;but all
things were now given Him.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-253; Psa. 40:3; Rev.
14:3.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Saying, Thou art worthy to take the book.</hi>&mdash;Worthy of
<q>a name which is above every name.</q>&mdash;Phil. 2:9.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And to open the seals thereof.</hi>&mdash;Disclose the wonderful
method by which the Father will develop the <emph>saviors</emph> of
the world.&mdash;Obad. 21.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For thou wast slain.</hi>&mdash;He had sacrificed His will, but
this was not sufficient. <q>God wished Him to sacrifice not
only His will, but actually to lay down His human life.
When all His testings were completed at His death on the
Cross, God gave Him a name to which all should bow, both
in Heaven and in earth.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-252.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And hast redeemed.</hi>&mdash;<q><foreign rend='italic'>Agorazo.</foreign> This word signifies to
purchase in the open market.</q>&mdash;E. <hi rend='italic'>443</hi>, 429; 1 Cor. 6:20; Gal.
3:13; Eph. 1:7; Col. 1:14; 1 Pet. 1:18, 19.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[Us].</hi>&mdash;Oldest MS., with evident propriety, omits <emph>us</emph>, since
the Divine attributes and prophecies were not redeemed.&mdash;Z. '97-151.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To God.</hi>&mdash;<q>What say the Scriptures respecting the sacrifice
of Christ, the offering which He made? Do they say
that it was made to Satan or to Jehovah God? We answer
that in all the types of the Jewish dispensation, which
foreshadowed this better sacrifice, which does take away
the sins of the world, the offerings were presented to God,
at the hands of the priest, who typified our Lord Jesus.</q>&mdash;E. <hi rend='italic'>461</hi>,
449.
</p>

<pb n='102'/><anchor id='Pg102'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>By Thy blood.</hi>&mdash;<q>If the blood of bulls and of goats ...
sanctifieth to the purifying of the flesh, how much more
shall the blood of Christ, who, through the eternal spirit,
offered Himself without spot to God.</q>&mdash;Heb. 9:13-15.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Out of every kindred.</hi>&mdash;<q>In thy Seed shall all the kindreds
of the earth be blessed.</q>&mdash;Acts 3:25.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And tongue.</hi>&mdash;<q>Every knee shall bow, every tongue shall
swear.</q>&mdash;Isa. 45:23.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And people.</hi>&mdash;<q>The heavens declare His righteousness,
and all the people see His glory.</q>&mdash;Psa. 97:6.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And nation.</hi>&mdash;<q>And in thy Seed shall all the nations of
the earth be blessed.</q>&mdash;Gen. 26:4, 22:18; Rev. 14:6.
</p>

<p>
5:10. <hi rend='sans'>And hast made [us] THEM unto our God [Kings]
A KINGDOM.</hi>&mdash;<q>It will be the Kingdom of the saints, in
that they shall reign and judge and bless the world in conjunction
with their Lord, Jesus. (Rom. 8:17, 18.) The
Kingdom class proper will consist only of our Lord and
His <q>elect</q> Little Flock.</q>&mdash;D. 618.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And [priests] PRIESTHOOD.</hi>&mdash;<q>The Divine provision for
a <q>Royal Priesthood</q> implies weakness, imperfection, on the
part of some whom the priests are to help, and instruct,
and from whom they are to accept sacrifice and offerings
for sin, and to whom they are to extend mercy and forgiveness.</q>&mdash;E. <hi rend='italic'>486</hi>,
476; 1 Pet. 2:5, 9; Rev. 1:6; 20:6.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And [we] THEY shall reign.</hi>&mdash;<q>But before the Royal
Priesthood begin their reign, they must <q>suffer with Him,</q>
sharing in the antitypical sacrifices. (2 Tim. 2:12.)</q>&mdash;T. 26.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>On.</hi>&mdash;<foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>Epi</foreign>, over.&mdash;Rev. 6:16.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The earth.</hi>&mdash;<q>The Kingdom and dominion, even the
majesty of the Kingdom <emph>under</emph> the whole heaven shall be
given to the people of the saints of the Most High, whose
Kingdom is an everlasting Kingdom, and all rulers shall
serve and obey Him. (Dan 7:27.)</q>&mdash;D. 618.
</p>

<p>
5:11. <hi rend='sans'>And I beheld.</hi>&mdash;John beheld this in vision and will
behold it in reality.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And I heard.</hi>&mdash;John heard in the vision, and will hear in
the reality.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>As it were the voice of many angels.</hi>&mdash;Besides the angels,
the Great Company are in this happy throng. The events
to the end of the chapter have their fulfilment in the
future.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Round about the Throne.</hi>&mdash;<q>In the circuit of Heaven</q>
(Job 22:14), the circle of the Universe.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the beasts.</hi>&mdash;Justice, Power, Love and Wisdom.&mdash;Rev.
4:6, 7.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the elders.</hi>&mdash;The prophecies.&mdash;Rev. 4:10.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the number of them.</hi>&mdash;<q>Whose number no man
knoweth.</q>&mdash;Rev. 7:9.
</p>

<pb n='103'/><anchor id='Pg103'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Was ten thousand times ten thousand, and thousands
of thousands.</hi>&mdash;The number of the Great Company will
apparently exceed one hundred millions. Num. 4:46-48
and Ex. 28:1 indicate but one priest to each 2,860 Levites,
which would make the number of the Great Company
approximate 411,840,000.&mdash;T. 118, 119; Dan. 7:10.
</p>

<p>
5:12. <hi rend='sans'>Saying with a loud voice.</hi>&mdash;The Great Company
will be very enthusiastic workers on the other side of
the veil, for they really love the Lord with all their heart,
soul, mind and strength (Mark 12:30), and need only to
be liberated to give full expression to that love.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Worthy is the Lamb that was slain.</hi>&mdash;<q>Our Lord Jesus
demonstrated before the Father, before angels, and before
His <q>brethren,</q> His fidelity to the Father and to the Father's
Law, demonstrating that it was not beyond the ability of
a perfect being, even under the most adverse conditions.</q>&mdash;E. <hi rend='italic'>134</hi>,
120.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To receive power.</hi>&mdash;The Great Company class humbly
realize that their faithfulness and zeal was not sufficient
to warrant their own exaltation to power.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And riches.</hi>&mdash;They realize they did not lay up all the
Heavenly treasures they might have done, but hid their
talents in earthly pursuits.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And wisdom.</hi>&mdash;They realize their own unwisdom in
seeking the praise of men and that the Christ Company,
though apparently fools for Christ's sake, were really the
wisest of the wise.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And strength.</hi>&mdash;They know that they used their own
strength for the support and maintenance of institutions
which really hindered rather than helped the Bride to
make herself ready.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And honor.</hi>&mdash;They know that, as a class, they sought
and obtained the honor that cometh from men, but failed
to properly seek the honor that cometh from God only.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And glory.</hi>&mdash;They know that they failed to meet the
high conditions of self-sacrifice, and were therefore unworthy
of the high reward.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And blessing.</hi>&mdash;They feel that the blessings which the
Lord gave to them were thoughtlessly appropriated to
themselves and their families, with hardly a serious
thought about the needs of the Lord's dear family; and
that appropriately, the chiefest of all blessings, the privilege
of extending God's blessings to the needy world,
should go to those who most earnestly <q>by patient perseverance
in well doing (did) seek for glory, honor and
immortality.</q> (Rom. 2:7.) Thus they reverence the
Lamb, and His Bride, for they are one.&mdash;Rev. 19:7.
</p>

<p>
5:13. <hi rend='sans'>And every creature.</hi>&mdash;After the destruction of the
<pb n='104'/><anchor id='Pg104'/>
incorrigible at the end of the Millennial Age (and this,
in itself, is a blessing to those who refuse to make a right
use of life).
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which is in Heaven.</hi>&mdash;<q>Let all the angels of God worship
Him.</q> (Heb. 1:6.) <q>Worship Him, all ye gods.</q>&mdash;Psa. 97:7.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And on the earth, [and under the earth,].</hi>&mdash;All mankind.&mdash;1
Cor. 15:25.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And such [as are] in the sea.</hi>&mdash;The class that continues
to be <q>in the sea,</q> i. e., not under religious restraint, will
cease to exist. They no longer <emph>are</emph>, but even their terminated
existence will be to the praise of the One who died
for them on Calvary; for they will have had a perfect
chance.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And all that are in them.</hi>&mdash;<q>That at the name of Jesus
every knee should bow, of things in Heaven, and things
in earth.</q>&mdash;Phil. 2:10; Eph. 1:10; Col. 1:20.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[Heard I] AND I HEARD THEM saying, THE Blessing.</hi>&mdash;The
myriads of happy beings, on all created planes of intelligence,
from the highest to the lowest, in Heaven and
earth, acknowledge with joy the source of all their blessings.&mdash;Rom.
9:5.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And honor.</hi>&mdash;By that time all will have come to see what
a great honor has been conferred on any creature to receive
the unspeakable boon of life on any plane, and will
gladly own its fountain.&mdash;1 Tim. 6:16.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And glory [and power] OF THE ALMIGHTY.</hi>&mdash;Each will
have come to know the glory of life on his own plane.
<q>There are celestial bodies, and bodies terrestrial: but the
glory of the celestial is one, and the glory of the terrestrial
is another. There is one glory of the sun, and another glory
of the moon, and another glory of the stars: for one star
differeth from another star in glory.</q>&mdash;1 Cor. 15:40, 41;
Rom. 16:27; 1 Pet. 4:11; 5:11.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Be.</hi>&mdash;Be ascribed to.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Him that sitteth upon the Throne.</hi>&mdash;Our Father and
Friend.&mdash;1 Chron. 29:11.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And unto the Lamb.</hi>&mdash;Our Redeemer and Brother.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For ever and ever.</hi>&mdash;<q>For the Ages of the Ages,</q> Greek.
</p>

<p>
5:14. <hi rend='sans'>And the four beasts said Amen.</hi>&mdash;Justice, Power,
Love and Wisdom unitedly declare this to be the happy
outcome.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the [four and twenty] elders fell down and worshipped
[Him that liveth for ever and ever].</hi>&mdash;The prophecies
plainly declare that neither men nor devils can in
any wise thwart this perfect ending of the Plan which
began so strangely and still progresses&mdash;the perfection,
through suffering, of the Little Flock, the Great Company
and, indeed, the world of mankind itself.&mdash;Rev. 4:10.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='105'/><anchor id='Pg105'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Revelation 6&mdash;Six Seals And The Papacy</head>

<p>
6:1. <hi rend='sans'>And I saw.</hi>&mdash;<q>God does not display His plans to
satisfy mere idle curiosity. If we would comprehend what
is revealed within the scroll we must be sincerely desirous
of knowing the details of God's Plan in order to an earnest
co-operation with it. Such, and such only, are worthy to
know, and such only ever come to see, in the sense of
understanding and appreciating, the deep things of God
written within the scroll. Such are the righteous for whom
the light (Truth) is sown. This worthiness is inquired for
not only at the beginning, but all along the path of light.
If we are not found worthy by the various tests applied
from time to time, we cannot proceed in the path of light;
and unless the unfaithful ones arouse themselves to
greater diligence and watchfulness, the light that already
is in them will become darkness. And how great, how
intense must be the darkness of one cast out of light!
(Matt. 6:23.)</q>&mdash;Z. '02-332.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>When the Lamb opened.</hi>&mdash;<q>The opening of the seals has
progressed during all the Gospel Age. It has required
all of the present Age and will require all of the next Age
to complete the Plan. We may suppose that the Lord
Jesus was made aware of all its features after His ascension
to the presence of Jehovah. The Master declared that
as the Father revealed them unto Him, so would He reveal
them unto us.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-253; Rev. 5:5-9.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>One of the SEVEN seals.</hi>&mdash;<q>Each seal as it was loosed
permitted the scroll as a whole to open a little wider, and
a little wider, thus permitting <q>the mystery of God</q> to be
a little more clearly discerned.</q>&mdash;Z. '97-257.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And I heard [as it were the noise of thunder].</hi>&mdash;The roar
of a Lion.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>One of the four beasts.</hi>&mdash;Justice, typified by the Lion.&mdash;Rev.
4:7.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Saying, AS IT WERE THE NOISE OF THUNDER,
Come and see.</hi>&mdash;Come and see Infinite Justice permitting
one of the greatest acts of injustice ever perpetrated.
</p>

<p>
6:2. <hi rend='sans'>And I saw.</hi>&mdash;John beheld in vision the first strange
and wonderful feature of the Divine Plan for the permission
of evil as it related to epochs of the Church beyond
his own epoch&mdash;that of Smyrna.
</p>

<pb n='106'/><anchor id='Pg106'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And behold a white horse.</hi>&mdash;The doctrines, teachings of
the Lord and the Apostles recognized as the one and only
rule of faith and practice of God's Church.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And he that sat on him.</hi>&mdash;The Bishop of Rome, the embryo
Pope, the personal representative of Satan.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Had a bow.</hi>&mdash;<q>They bend their tongues like their bow
for lies: but they are not valiant for the truth upon the
earth; for they proceed from evil to evil, and they know
not Me, saith the Lord.</q>&mdash;Jer. 9:3.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And a crown.</hi>&mdash;Great honor and authority in the Church.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Was given unto him.</hi>&mdash;<q>Under the reign of Constantine
(who murdered his own son in the same year in which
he convened the Council of Nice) the opposition of the
empire to Christianity gave way to favor, and the Imperial
Pontifex Maximus became the patron of the professed
but really apostate Church of Christ; and, taking her by
the hand, he assisted her to a place of popularity and
splendor from which she was able afterward, as the imperial
power grew weak, to put her own representatives
upon the religious throne of the world as Chief Religious
Ruler&mdash;Pontifex Maximus.</q>&mdash;B. 290.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And he went forth conquering, [and to conquer] AND HE
CONQUERED.</hi>&mdash;Thus we see the apparent defeat of Infinite
Justice in this first epoch. Apparently, God forsook His
Church, having jeopardized all its interests by placing
the power in the hands of a self-seeking ecclesiastical
system. But worse things are coming!
</p>

<p>
6:3. <hi rend='sans'>And when He had opened the second seal.</hi>&mdash;Revealing
the second period of the history of the Antichrist.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>I heard the second beast.</hi>&mdash;Infinite Power. See Rev. 4:7.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Say, Come and see.</hi>&mdash;Come and see Infinite Power consenting
to a thing apparently in victorious opposition to it.
</p>

<p>
6:4. <hi rend='sans'>And I beheld and lo there went out another horse.</hi>&mdash;A
creed-horse, quite different from the Scriptures which
it misrepresented.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That was red.</hi>&mdash;The color of sin&mdash;imperfection. <q>Though
your sins be as scarlet.</q>&mdash;Isa. 1:18.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And power was given to him that sat thereon.</hi>&mdash;The same
rider, the Antichrist.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To take peace from the earth.</hi>&mdash;To embroil in controversy
those who were under religious restraint&mdash;in other
words, the entire professed church of God.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And that they should kill one another.</hi>&mdash;Depose and
destroy one another as teachers, by inveighing the Roman
power against all offenders.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And there was given unto him a great sword.</hi>&mdash;As the
Lord has a great and powerful sword, the Sword of the
Spirit, which is the Word of God (Eph. 6:17), and as it
<pb n='107'/><anchor id='Pg107'/>
is represented as coming out of His mouth, so the Papacy
has a great and powerful sword, in opposition to the
Sword of the Spirit, and it, too, comes out of Papacy's
mouth. [The word here is different from Rev. 1:16 and
refers to the butcher knife&mdash;Gen. 22:6, 10.] <q>The pope
(each pope in his turn) is the head of the false church,
which is his body, even as Christ Jesus is the Head of
the true Church, which is His Body. Since the head is
the representative of the body, and its <emph>mouth</emph> speaks for
the body, we find, as we should expect, this feature of
Antichrist prominently referred to in the Scriptures. In
Daniel 7:8, 11, 25, and Rev. 13:5, 6, the mouth of Antichrist
is brought specially to our notice as a leading characteristic.</q>&mdash;B. 304.
</p>

<p>
This period, beginning with the year 325 A. D. and extending
to the year 539, was the period of formation of
creeds. <q>Come near, put your feet upon the necks of these
kings.</q> (Josh. 10:24.) Once they were very powerful, but
they are quite harmless now. The Lord (Joshua-Savior)
has humbled them all by His own Sword of the Spirit in
the hands of Pastor Russell.
</p>

<p>
<q>Neither Luke in the Acts of the Apostles, nor any
ecclesiastical writer before the fifth century, makes mention
of an assembly of the Apostles for the purpose of
forming a creed. Had the Apostles composed it, it would
have been the same in all churches and ages. But it is
quite otherwise.</q> (McC.) So much for the well-known
<q>Apostle's Creed,</q> which, it is alleged, <q>comprehends the
leading articles of the faith in the triune God.</q>
</p>

<p>
But this was not triune enough, so the Nicene Creed
improved the matter, A. D. 325:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>We believe in one God the Father Almighty, Maker of all
things visible and invisible; and in one Lord Jesus Christ, the
Son of God, begotten of the Father, Only-begotten, that is of
the substance of the Father; God of God; Light of Light; very
God of very God; begotten, not made; of the same substance
with the Father; by whom all things were made, both things
in Heaven and things in earth; who for us men and our salvation
became flesh, was made man, suffered, and rose again
the third day. He ascended into Heaven; He cometh to judge
the quick and dead. And in the Holy Ghost. But those that
say there was a time when He was not; or that He was not
before He was begotten; or that He was made from that
which had no being; or who affirm the Son of God to be of
any other substance or essence, or created, or variable, or
mutable, such persons doth the Catholic and Apostolic Church
anathematize.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
Fifty-six years later, at the second Ecumenical Council of
Constantinople, A. D. 381, the Nicaeno-Constantinopolitan
Creed was put on the market:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>I believe in one God the Father Almighty, Maker of Heaven
<pb n='108'/><anchor id='Pg108'/>
and earth, and of all things visible and invisible; and in one
Lord Jesus Christ, the only-begotten Son of God, begotten of
His Father before all worlds; God of God, Light of Light,
very God of very God, begotten, not made, being of one substance
with the Father; by whom all things were made; who
for us men and for our salvation came down from Heaven, and
was incarnate by the Holy Ghost of the Virgin Mary, and
was made man, and was crucified also for us under Pontius
Pilate, He suffered and was buried; and the third day He
rose again, according to the Scriptures; and ascended into
Heaven, and sitteth on the right hand of the Father. And
He shall come again with glory to judge both the quick and
the dead, whose Kingdom shall have no end. And I believe
in the Holy Ghost the Lord and Giver of Life, who proceedeth
from the Father and the Son, who with the Father and the
Son together is worshipped and glorified, who spake by the
Prophets. And I believe in the one catholic and apostolic
church. I acknowledge one baptism for the remission of sins;
and I look for the resurrection of the dead, and the life of
the world to come.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
This did very well until the fourth Ecumenical Council,
A. D. 451, when the Chalcedon Creed was worked up. But
very little is said about this creed nowadays; for <q>the two
parties in the council were roused to the highest pitch of
passion, the proceedings, especially during the early sessions,
were very tumultuous, until the lay commissioners
and the senators had to urge the bishops to keep order,
saying that such vulgar outcries were disgraceful.</q> However,
we give it for what it is worth:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>We confess and with one accord teach one and the same
Son, our Lord Jesus Christ, perfect in the divinity, perfect
in the humanity, truly God and truly man, consisting of a
reasonable soul and body; consubstantial with the Father
according to the Godhead, and consubstantial with us according
to the manhood; in all things like unto us, sin only excepted;
who was begotten of the Father before all ages, according
to the Godhead; and in the last days the same was born,
according to the manhood, of Mary the Virgin, Mother of
God, for us and for our salvation; who is to be acknowledged
one and the same Christ, the Son, the Lord, the Only Begotten
in two natures, without mixture, change, division or separation;
the difference of natures not being removed by their
union, but rather the propriety of each nature being preserved
and concurring in one person and in one <foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>hypostasis</foreign>, so that
He is not divided into two persons, but the only Son, the
Word, our Lord Jesus Christ, and one and the same person.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
A merciful oblivion has hidden the name and the date
of authorship of the next creed, the Athanasian, the cream
of all the creeds; but it was probably manufactured by
Satan for use about 539 A. D. By 570 A. D. it had become
very famous. <q>The creed is received in the Greek, Roman
and English churches, but is left out of the service of
the Protestant Episcopal Church in America.</q> The nature
<pb n='109'/><anchor id='Pg109'/>
of this creed may be judged by the following extract from
an 1855 issue of the Church of England Quarterly:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>The Athanasian Creed finds few real lovers as a portion of
a public service. No one supposes that it was the work of
Athanasius. [Athanasius originated the monastery-convent
system. He was the Bishop of Alexandria and friend of the
Emperor Constantine who caused the banishment of Arius.]
No one is now, at least among us, in any danger from the errors
it denounces; for no one believes that all the members of the
Greek Church are necessarily consigned to everlasting damnation;
and thus, every time the creed is read, the officiating minister
has solemnly to enunciate what neither he nor any of his
hearers believes. It is true that by distinguishing between the
creed itself and the damnatory clauses he may save himself,
mentally, from declaring a falsehood; but surely this is reason
enough for the removal of the creed from our Liturgy. We
have had too much in our Church of mental reservations. So
far as the doctrine of the Trinity is concerned, it is abundantly
insisted on in the Apostles' and Nicene Creeds.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
It seems almost incredible that any one seriously believed
the following amazing statements:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Whoever will be saved, before all things it is necessary that
he hold the Catholic faith, which faith, except every one do
keep whole and undefiled, without doubt he shall perish everlastingly.
And the Catholic faith is this: that we worship one God
in Trinity, and Trinity in Unity; neither confounding the persons
nor dividing the substance. For there is one person of the
Father, another of the Son, and another of the Holy Ghost. But
the Godhead of the Father, of the Son and of the Holy Ghost
is all one; the glory equal, the majesty co-eternal. Such as the
Father is, such is the Son, and such is the Holy Ghost. The
Father uncreate, the Son uncreate, and the Holy Ghost uncreate.
The Father incomprehensible, the Son incomprehensible, and the
Holy Ghost incomprehensible. The Father eternal, the Son eternal,
and the Holy Ghost eternal. And yet they are not three
eternals, but one eternal. As also there are not three incomprehensibles,
nor three uncreated, but one uncreated, and one
incomprehensible. So likewise the Father is almighty, the Son
almighty, and the Holy Ghost almighty. And yet there are not
three almighties, but one almighty. So the Father is God, the
Son is God and the Holy Ghost is God. And yet there are not
three Gods, but one God. So likewise the Father is Lord, the
Son is Lord and the Holy Ghost Lord. And yet not three Lords,
but one Lord. For like as we are compelled by the Christian
verity to acknowledge every person by Himself to be God and
Lord, so are we forbidden by the Catholic religion to say there
be three Gods and three Lords. The Father is made of none,
neither created nor begotten. The Son is of the Father alone;
not made, nor created, but begotten. The Holy Ghost is of the
Father and the Son; neither made, nor created, nor begotten,
but proceeding. So there is one Father, not three Fathers; one
Son, not three Sons; one Holy Ghost, not three Holy Ghosts.
And in this Trinity none is afore or after other; none is greater
or less than another. But the whole three persons are co-eternal
together, and co-equal. So that in all things, as aforesaid,
the Unity in Trinity and the Trinity in Unity is to be
worshipped.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>He therefore that will be saved must thus think of the Trinity.
Furthermore, it is necessary to everlasting salvation that
<pb n='110'/><anchor id='Pg110'/>
he also believe rightly the incarnation of our Lord Jesus Christ.
For the right faith is that we believe and confess that our
Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of God, is God and man. God of the
substance of the Father, begotten before the worlds; and man
of the substance of His mother, born in the world. Perfect God
and perfect man, or a reasonable soul and human flesh subsisting.
Equal to the Father as touching His Godhead, and inferior
to the Father as touching His manhood. Who, although
He be God and man, yet He is not two, but one Christ. One,
not by conversion of the Godhead into flesh, but by taking of
the manhood into God. One altogether, not by confusion of
substance, but by unity of person. For as the reasonable soul
and flesh is one man, so God and man is one Christ. Who suffered
for our salvation, descended into hell, rose again the third
day from the dead. He ascended into Heaven; He sitteth on
the right hand of the Father, God Almighty. From whence He
shall come to judge the quick and the dead. At whose coming
all men shall rise again in their bodies, and shall account for
their own works. And they that have done good shall go into
life everlasting, and they that have done evil into everlasting
fire. This is the Catholic faith which, except a man believe
faithfully he cannot be saved. Glory be to the Father, and to
the Son, and to the Holy Ghost. As it was in the beginning, is
now, and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
This put an end to the business of creed making, Satan's
powers of concocting gibberish to take the place of the
Bible having been temporarily quite exhausted. But a
thousand years later the <q>Creed of Pope Pius IV</q> was
issued in the form of a bull in December, 1564. <q>All
bishops, ecclesiastics, and teachers in the Romish church,
as well as all converts from Protestantism, publicly profess
assent to it.</q> It follows:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>I, A. B., believe and profess with a firm faith all and every
one of the things which are contained in the symbol of faith
which is used in the Holy Roman Church; namely, I believe
in one God the Father Almighty, Maker of heaven and earth,
and of all things visible and invisible; and in one Lord Jesus
Christ, the only-begotten Son of God, born of the Father before
all worlds, God of God, Light of Light, true God of true
God, begotten not made, consubstantial to the Father, by whom
all things were made; who for us men and for our salvation
came down from heaven, and was incarnate by the Holy Ghost
of the Virgin Mary, and was made man; was crucified also for
us under Pontius Pilate, suffered and was buried, and rose
again the third day according to the Scriptures, and ascended
into heaven, sits at the right hand of the Father, and will come
again with glory to judge the living and the dead, of whose
kingdom there will be no end; and in the Holy Ghost, the Lord
and Life-giver, who proceeds from the Father and the Son,
who, together with the Father and the Son, is adored and glorified,
who spake by the holy prophets; and one holy catholic and
apostolic church. I confess one baptism for the remission of
sins; and I expect the resurrection of the dead, and the life of
the world to come. Amen. I most firmly admit and embrace
apostolical and ecclesiastical traditions, and all other constitutions
and observances of the same church. I also admit the
sacred Scriptures according to the sense which the holy mother
church has held and does hold, to whom it belongs to judge of
<pb n='111'/><anchor id='Pg111'/>
the true sense and interpretation of the Holy Scriptures; nor
will I ever take or interpret them otherwise than according to
the unanimous consent of the fathers.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>I profess, also, that there are truly and properly seven sacraments
of the new law, instituted by Jesus Christ our Lord, and for
the salvation of mankind, though all are not necessary for every
one&mdash;namely, baptism, confirmation, eucharist, penance, extreme
unction, orders, and matrimony, and that they confer grace;
and of these, baptism, confirmation, and order cannot be reiterated
without sacrilege. I do also receive and admit the ceremonies
of the Catholic Church, received and approved in the
solemn administration of all the above-said sacraments. I receive
and embrace all and every one of the things which have
been defined and declared in the holy Council of Trent concerning
sin and justification. I profess likewise that in the mass is
offered to God a true, proper, and propitiatory sacrifice for the
living and the dead; and that in the most holy sacrament of
the eucharist there is truly, really and substantially the body
and blood, together with the soul and divinity, of our Lord
Jesus Christ; and that there is made a conversion of the whole
substance of the bread into the body, and of the whole substance
of the wine into the blood, which conversion the Catholic
Church calls Transubstantiation. I confess, also, that under
either kind alone, whole and entire, Christ and a true sacrament
is received. I constantly hold that there is a purgatory, and
that the souls detained therein are helped by the suffrages of
the faithful. Likewise that the saints reigning together with
Christ are to be honored and invocated, that they offer prayers
to God for us, and that their relics are to be venerated.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I most firmly assert that the images of Christ, and of the
Mother of God, ever Virgin, and also of the other saints, are
to be had and retained, and that due honor and veneration are
to be given to them. I also affirm that the power of indulgences
was left by Christ in the Church, and that the use of
them is most wholesome to Christian people. I acknowledge the
holy catholic and apostolic Roman Church, <hi rend='italic'>the mother and mistress
of all churches</hi>; and I promise and swear true obedience
to the Roman bishop, the successor of St. Peter, prince of the
apostles and vicar of Jesus Christ. I also profess and undoubtedly
receive all other things delivered, defined, and declared by
the sacred canons and general councils, and particularly by the
holy Council of Trent; and likewise I also condemn, reject, and
anathematize all things contrary thereto, and all heresies whatsoever
condemned, rejected, and anathematized by the Church.
This true catholic faith, out of which none can be saved, which
I now freely profess and truly hold, I, A. B., promise, vow, and
swear most constantly to hold, and profess the same whole and
entire, with God's assistance to the end of my life; and to procure,
as far as lies in my power, that the same shall be held,
taught, and preached by all who are under me, or are intrusted
to my care, by virtue of my office. So help me God, and these
holy Gospels of God. Amen.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
The less Bible, the more Creed, and the thicker and
blacker the darkness! Bible students will not fail to
notice the progressive darkness of these creeds. Incarnation
is first mentioned in the third creed, mariolatry in
the fourth, and trinity and purgatory in the fifth.
</p>

<p>
In the Millennial Age the creed-formers will feel like adding
a postscript to their work, reading about as follows:
</p>

<pb n='112'/><anchor id='Pg112'/>

<p>
<q>P. S.&mdash;We have had our eyes opened and now see that
Jesus was the Alpha, the Beginning of the creation of
God, and the Omega, the Last of the Father's direct creation
(Rev. 22:13; 1:8); that as the Logos, or Representative
of the Father, He was <emph>a</emph> God (mighty one) but not <emph>the</emph>
God, Jehovah (John 1:1); that all things were made by
Him (John 1:3); that Jehovah <emph>sent</emph> His Son to save mankind
(1 John 4:10); that the Logos was made flesh (John
1:14) and in the days of His flesh (Heb. 5:7) became
poor (2 Cor. 8:9), lower than the angels (Heb. 2:9), a
servant (Phil. 2:7), a man (Phil. 2:8); that while a man
He did not have all wisdom (Luke 2:52) but admitted
the Father's greater power (John 14:28) and knowledge
(Matt. 24:36); that as the Father had previously said that
He would give His own personal glory to no one (Isa.
42:8), so Jesus admitted He and the Father were two
separate persons (John 8:17, 18); that He admitted He
had not the glory of the Father (John 17:5) and expected
the same unity between the Church and the Father as
existed between Himself and the Father (John 17:21-23);
that when He died He was really, truly, completely dead,
as dead as though He had never previously existed (1 Cor.
15:3; Rev. 1:18); that God raised Him from the dead
(Acts 2:24; Gal. 1:1); highly exalted Him (Phil. 2:9) to
Divine nature (2 Pet. 1:4); making Him the express
image of Himself (Heb. 1:3); but that even since His
resurrection our Father is still Jesus' Father and our God
is still His God (John 20:17); that a thousand years hence
Jesus will still be subject to the Father (1 Cor. 15:28);
that to us there is but one God (1 Cor. 8:6) and that
every doctrine that confesseth that Jesus Christ when He
came in the flesh came as anything more or less than
a fleshly being is the spirit of Antichrist which dictated
every one of the creeds aforementioned (1 John 4:3).</q>
</p>

<p>
6:5. <hi rend='sans'>And when He had opened the third seal.</hi>&mdash;Disclosing
the third epoch in the history of Antichrist.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>I heard the third beast.</hi>&mdash;Infinite Love.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Say, Come and see.</hi>&mdash;Come and see the apparently complete
triumph of the powers of darkness and the apparent
inaction of Infinite Love in permitting it.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And I beheld, and lo, a black horse.</hi>&mdash;Complete disregard
of the Scriptures by clergy and people alike, and in their
place the ugly creeds and bulls of popes and councils.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And he that sat on him.</hi>&mdash;The same rider, the Antichrist.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Had a pair of balances in his hand.</hi>&mdash;<q>Balance joined
with symbols denoting the sale of corn and fruits by
weight, becomes the symbol of scarcity; bread by weight
being a curse in Lev. 26:26 and in Ezek. 4:16, 17.</q> (McC.)
<pb n='113'/><anchor id='Pg113'/>
During this period the common people could have in their
own tongue only a few words or verses of the Scriptures;
and for these they were obliged to pay large sums to the
clergy, who alone had the ability to translate from the
dead languages, or even to read at all. As the services
were in Latin the people were starved spiritually.
</p>

<p>
6:6. <hi rend='sans'>And I heard AS IT WERE a voice.</hi>&mdash;The voice of the
Lord Jesus, the Guardian and Caretaker of the true Church.&mdash;Matt.
28:20.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>In the midst of the four beasts.</hi>&mdash;<q>In the midst of the
Throne and of the four beasts, and in the midst of the
elders, stood a Lamb.</q>&mdash;Rev. 5:6.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Say, A measure.</hi>&mdash;<q>The word <foreign rend='italic'>chenix</foreign> denotes a measure
containing one wine quart and a twelfth part of a quart.</q>&mdash;Diaglott.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of wheat.</hi>&mdash;The true children of the Kingdom.&mdash;C. 137.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For a penny.</hi>&mdash;<q>A <foreign rend='italic'>denarius</foreign> was the day-wages of a
laborer in Palestine (Matt. 20:2, 9).</q> (Diaglott.) These
wages, a little more than a quart of wheat for a day's
work, show how great was the effort, in those dark and
terrible days, to find some <q>grains of wheat.</q>&mdash;Amos 8:11.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And three measures.</hi>&mdash;Three <foreign rend='italic'>chenices</foreign>, three quarts.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of barley.</hi>&mdash;Spiritual adulterers and adulteresses, courting
the friendship of the world. (Jas. 4:4.) Barley is the
symbol of the adulteress as wheat is the symbol of the
virgin.&mdash;Num. 5:15; Hos. 3:1, 2.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For a penny.</hi>&mdash;For a <foreign rend='italic'>denarius</foreign>. It was three times as easy
to find the faithless as the faithful.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And see thou hurt not the oil.</hi>&mdash;The supply of the oil,
the Holy Spirit of full submission to the will of God was
low; the light of the true Church was feeble indeed.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the wine.</hi>&mdash;Wine is a symbol of doctrine, true or
false, and its accompanying joys. In this case it refers to
the true doctrines of the Kingdom. But little knowledge
of the coming Kingdom was prevalent then, and the joys
of the Church were proportionately small. (See comments
on Rev. 2:12-17, synchronous with events of second
and third seals.)
</p>

<p>
Lest it be supposed that the Roman Catholic church is
now different from what it once was, and that at present it
is holding to the Scriptures, we quote the following from
<hi rend='italic'>Strength of Will</hi> by E. Boyd Barrett, of the Society of
the Jesuits, approved by the Roman Catholic censor, Remy
Lafort, and approved by John, Cardinal Farley, Archbishop
of New York, November 24th, 1915:
</p>

<p>
<q>Catholic ascetics teach us, in this matter, first of all
to have a clear and definite view of the object we propose
to ourselves&mdash;let us suppose that it is to overcome
<pb n='114'/><anchor id='Pg114'/>
the passion of anger. Now the resolution, <q>not to give
way to anger</q> would be far too broad and too great. Applying
the principle, <q><foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>divide et impera</foreign>,</q> we content ourselves
with resolving <q>not to give way to external manifestations
of anger.</q> But here again, our resolution is too
broad and too great. We again apply the principle,
<q><foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>divide et impera</foreign>,</q> and resolve <q>not to give way to angry
retorts.</q> This resolution is pointed, definite and intelligible&mdash;it
means that cross and peevish remarks must not
occur. A time limit may now be added in order to make
the resolution still more well-defined: 'Until the last day
of this month I will not make an angry retort.' Possibly,
it might be advisable to limit this resolution still more,
by conditions of place or circumstance, adding <q>in such
a place or to such a person, or during such a ceremony.</q></q>
Simple! All you have to do is to keep dividing.
</p>

<p>
6:7. <hi rend='sans'>And when He had opened the fourth seal.</hi>&mdash;Disclosing
the history of the Papacy in its fourth stage, the period
synchronizing with the Thyatira and Sardis epochs. See
Rev. 2:18-29; 3:1-6.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>I heard the voice of the fourth beast.</hi>&mdash;Infinite Wisdom.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Say, Come and see.</hi>&mdash;Come and see what would seem to
be the most unwise thing the Lord could possibly permit
to happen to His Church.
</p>

<p>
6:8. <hi rend='sans'>And I looked, and behold a pale horse.</hi>&mdash;The
ghastly and horrible teachings that God's true people must
be <q>exterminated.</q> <q>The ghastly green of terror and of
death. The word is used of grass in Rev. 8:7; 9:4; Mark
6:39.</q>&mdash;Cook.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And his name that sat on him was Death.</hi>&mdash;Still the same
rider, the Papacy; and an apt description of its chief
claim to recognition during the pre-Reformation period.
</p>

<p>
<q>Pope Innocent III. first sent missionaries to the districts
in which the doctrines had gained foothold, to preach
Romanism, work miracles, etc.; but, finding these efforts
unavailing, he proclaimed a crusade against them and
offered to all who would engage in it the pardon of all
sins and an immediate passport to Heaven without passing
through purgatory. With full faith in the pope's power
to bestow the promised rewards, half a million men&mdash;French,
German and Italian&mdash;rallied around the standard
of the cross, for the defence of Catholicism and the extinction
of heresy. Then followed a series of battles and
sieges covering a space of twenty years. The city of
Beziers was stormed and taken in 1209, and the citizens,
without regard for age or sex, perished by the sword to
the number of sixty thousand, as reported by several
historians. The blood of those who fled to churches, and
<pb n='115'/><anchor id='Pg115'/>
were murdered there by the holy crusaders, drenched the
altars and flowed through the streets. It is estimated that
one hundred thousand Albigenses fell in one day; and their
bodies were heaped together and burned. The clergy
thanked God for the work of destruction, and a hymn of
praise to God for the glorious victory was composed and
sung.</q>&mdash;B. 335.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And Hell followed with him.</hi>&mdash;All the people killed by the
pope went to hell, and he himself went there also; but
none of them went to the kind of hell to which the pope
thought he was sending them. They went to the Bible
hell, which is a place quite different from what is supposed.
The average man believes in hell, but thinks few
people go there and that nobody knows much about it.
The Bible is the only authority on the subject, and no
one can know anything about it, aside from the Bible.
When we consider Christ's statement that unless a man
loves Him more than <q>father, and mother, and wife, and
children, and brethren, and sisters, yea, and his own life
also, he cannot be My disciple</q> (Luke 14:26), and reflect
that probably not one professed Christian in a hundred
has reached either this standard or the other one which He
set in the same chapter, that <q>Whosoever he be of you
that forsaketh not all that he hath, he cannot be My disciple</q>
(Luke 14:33), it should make us willing to consider
carefully what is to become of the 9,999 out of every 10,000
of earth's population that do not meet these conditions.
</p>

<p>
We all know that <q>The wicked shall be turned into
hell, and all the nations that forget God</q> (Psa. 9:17); but
how many of us know that they will be re-turned there;
that the passage, correctly translated, reads, <q>The wicked
shall be returned into hell, all the nations that forget
God</q>&mdash;showing that there are nations which go into hell
once, come out of hell, learn of God, forget Him and are returned
there? We may all know (Jude 11) that Korah, or
Core, went to hell; but how many of us know that he was
accompanied to this place by his house, with all his household
goods, and two other establishments similarly
equipped? (<hi rend='italic'>Num.</hi> 16:32, 33.) We may all know that the
Sodomites went to hell (Gen. 19), but how many know
that they were accompanied by the city in which they
lived and that there are other cities there? (<hi rend='italic'>Matt.</hi> 11:23.)
We may all suppose that many heathen warriors of long
ago went to hell, but how many of us know that they took
with them their weapons of war, and that their swords
are there now, under their heads, with what is left of
their bones? (Ezek. 32:27.) We may understand that
the wealthy go to hell, but how many know that in the
<pb n='116'/><anchor id='Pg116'/>
same place are sheep, gray hairs, worms, dust, trees and
water?&mdash;Psa. 49:14; Gen. 44:31; Job 17:13-16; Ezek. 31:16.
</p>

<p>
We may all know that bad men go to hell, but how
many of us know that the Ancient Worthies, Jacob and
Hezekiah, fully expected to go there, and that faithful
Job prayed to go there? (Gen. 37:35; Job 14:13.) We
may all wish to keep out of hell, but how many of us
know that David said there is not a man that liveth that
shall deliver his soul from its power, and that Solomon
says, thou goest there, whosoever thou art? (Psa. 89:48;
Eccl. 9:10.) We may think that those who go to hell go
there to stay forever, but how many of us know that Samuel
said, <q>The Lord killeth and maketh alive; He bringeth
down to hell and bringeth up</q> out of hell, and that
David said, God has the same power to aid those in hell
that He has to bless those in Heaven? (1 Sam. 2:6; Psa.
139:8.) We may think that those who go into hell never
come out, and that there is no record that any have come
out, yet there are at least two persons in history who
have been in hell and come out of hell. One is Jonah,
who prayed in hell and was delivered from hell (Jonah
2:2), and the other is Christ, whose soul went to hell, but
<q>His soul was not left in hell,</q> for God raised Him up out
of it. (Acts 2:31.) And when Christ came out of hell
He brought with Him <q>The keys of hell</q> and now has the
power and the right to set all its captives free. (Rev.
1:18.) We may suppose that hell is to last forever, but
the Prophet speaks of its coming destruction, and John
the Revelator says that it is to be made to <q>deliver up
the dead</q> which are in it, and it, itself, is to be destroyed.
(Hosea 13:14; Rev. 20:13.) The last passage
cited affords the explanation of the whole subject, for in
the margin opposite Rev. 20:13 the translators have explained
that the word <q>hell</q> means <q>grave.</q> Reversely, in
the margin opposite 1 Cor. 15:55, the translators have
explained that <q>grave</q> means <q>hell.</q> The terms are interchangeable
and the meaning is the same. In every
place foregoing in which the citations appear in italic type,
the translators have rendered Sheol or Hades by <q>grave</q>
or <q>pit</q> instead of <q>hell.</q> In the margins of the old family
Bibles, printed before Pastor Russell was born, we are
told in seven places, and in both ways, in both the Old
Testament and the New, that hell means the grave, and
the grave means hell.&mdash;Psa. 49:15; 55:15; 86:13; Isa. 14:9;
Jonah 2:2; 1 Cor. 15:55; Rev. 20:13.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And power was given unto them.</hi>&mdash;To his Holiness, the
Pope, and all the cardinals, bishops, archbishops, priests,
inquisitors, kings and rulers.
</p>

<pb n='117'/><anchor id='Pg117'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Over the fourth part of the earth.</hi>&mdash;Over Europe, but not
over Asia, Africa or America.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To kill with sword, and [with hunger] FAMINE and
[with] death.</hi>&mdash;The destruction of New Creatures by wresting
of the Scriptures and their spiritual starvation are here
in evidence; but there was also a literal fulfilment. <q>Human
and Satanic ingenuity were taxed to their utmost to invent
new and horrible tortures, for both the political and religious
opponents of Antichrist; the latter&mdash;heretics&mdash;being
pursued with tenfold fury. Besides the common forms of
persecution and death, such as racking, burning, drowning,
stabbing, starving and shooting with arrows and guns,
fiendish hearts meditated how the most delicate and sensitive
parts of the body, capable of the most excruciating
pain, could be affected; molten lead was poured into the
ears; tongues were cut out and lead poured into the
mouths; wheels were arranged with knife blades attached
so that the victim could be slowly chopped to pieces;
claws and pincers were made red hot and used upon sensitive
parts of the body; eyes were gouged out; finger
nails were pulled off with red hot irons; holes, by which
the victim was tied up, were bored through the heels;
some were forced to jump from eminences onto long
spikes fixed below, where, quivering with pain, they slowly
died. The mouths of some were filled with gunpowder,
which, when fired, blew their heads to pieces; others were
hammered to pieces on anvils; others, attached to bellows,
had air pumped into them until they burst; others were
choked to death with mangled pieces of their own bodies;
others with urine, excrement, etc., etc.</q>&mdash;B. 346.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And with the beasts of the earth.</hi>&mdash;The evil governments.
<q>Kings and princes who trembled for the security
of their crowns, if they to any extent incurred the pope's
displeasure, were sworn to exterminate heresy, and those
barons who neglected to aid in the work of persecution
forfeited their estates. Kings and princes, therefore, were
prompt to comply with the mandates of the Papacy, and
the barons and their retainers were at their service, to aid
in the work of destruction.</q>&mdash;B. 333.
</p>

<p>
6:9. <hi rend='sans'>And when He had opened the fifth seal.</hi>&mdash;Disclosing
the Reformation in the days of Luther. See Rev. 3:7-13.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>I saw under the altar.</hi>&mdash;Altars were originally made of
earth. (Ex. 20:24.) To see under the altar is to see underground,
in the tomb, the grave. At the bottom of the
brazen altar all the blood of the victim was poured.&mdash;Lev.
4:7; 8:15; Heb. 8:5; 13:10; Phil. 2:17; 2 Tim. 4:6.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The souls.</hi>&mdash;The beings of those who had died. These
souls were not in Heaven.
</p>

<pb n='118'/><anchor id='Pg118'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of [them] MEN that were slain.</hi>&mdash;Spiritually beheaded
(some of them literally, also).&mdash;Rev. 20:4.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For.</hi>&mdash;<foreign rend='italic'>Dia</foreign>, <q>through</q> or <q>by means of.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The Word of God.</hi>&mdash;<q>Of His own will begat He us with
the Word of Truth.</q> (James 1:18.) It is this Sword of
the Spirit that cuts us off from the world.&mdash;Heb. 4:12.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And for the testimony.</hi>&mdash;<q>And <emph>through</emph> the testimony</q>;
through the Word of God. The word <foreign rend='italic'>dia</foreign> is here used
again. It is the Word that does the beheading.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which they held.</hi>&mdash;As witnesses in their hearts (Rom.
8:16) and to which they adhered at any cost.
</p>

<p>
6:10. <hi rend='sans'>And they cried with a loud voice.</hi>&mdash;Not actually,
but in the same way that the voice of Abel's blood cried
from the ground.&mdash;Gen. 4:10.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Saying, How long, O Lord.</hi>&mdash;How long will it be from this
particular time, the Spring of 1518?&mdash;Rev. 3:7.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Holy and true.</hi>&mdash;See Rev. 3:7; 1 John 5:20; Mark 1:24.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[Dost] WILT Thou not judge.</hi>&mdash;Deliver us from the tomb.
The judges of old were <emph>deliverers</emph>.&mdash;Judges 3:9-11.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And avenge our blood.</hi>&mdash;Cast off from all favor a system
of nominal Christianity which is not Christianity at all.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>On them that dwell on the earth.</hi>&mdash;On these that are <q>Of
the earth, earthy.</q>&mdash;Rev. 17:5; 3:10; 8:13; 13:8, 14. <q>The
answer is given by the angel of the waters. See Rev.
16:4-7.</q> (Cook.) Quite true. The answer is in Vol. III of
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Scripture Studies</hi>.
</p>

<p>
6:11. <hi rend='sans'>And [white robes were] THERE WAS given unto
[every one] EACH of them a white robe.</hi>&mdash;<q>God's grace
cannot admit to heavenly perfection those who have not
robes of spotless righteousness. How gracious is the provision
of our God in thus presenting us with the Robe
which covers all the repented-of blemishes of the past as
well as the unintentional and unwitting imperfections of
the present!</q>&mdash;Z. '11-342; Rev. 3:4, 5; 19:8.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And it was said unto them.</hi>&mdash;Not actually, but by the
teachings of the parallel dispensations, which show that
as Christ was raised from the dead in A. D. 33, the
sleeping saints would be raised 1845 years later, in the
Spring of 1878. See Rev. 3:14, 20.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That they should rest yet for a little season.</hi>&mdash;Greek
<foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>Chronos</foreign>, 360 years. See Rev. 2:21. This is the item
which Pastor Russell had in mind in the following footnote:
<q>When, in a succeeding volume, we examine the
wonderful visions of the Revelator, it will be clearly seen
that the time here pointed out by the word <q>henceforth,</q>
as marked by events, synchronizes closely with 1878, as
indicated by the prophecies herein noted.</q> (C. 241.) Luther
nailed the proclamation on the church door at Wittenberg
<pb n='119'/><anchor id='Pg119'/>
Oct 31, 1517, which was already one month into the year
1518, Jewish reckoning. But it took some time for the
news to travel to all parts of Europe. Three hundred and
sixty years from the Spring of 1518 brings us to the Spring
of 1878, when we understand that God's promise made to
the sleeping saints was fulfilled. They were raised from
the dead, and Babylon was cast off.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Until their fellowservants also.</hi>&mdash;The other members of
the Little Flock, all bond-slaves of Jesus.&mdash;Gal. 6:17,
Diaglott, footnote.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And their brethren.</hi>&mdash;Fellow-believers, the Great Company.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That should be killed BY THEM as they were.</hi>&mdash;Similarly
make covenants of consecration to the Lord.&mdash;Rev. 6:9.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Should be fulfilled.</hi>&mdash;Should be filled full, completed in
number. <q>The Gospel age is for the very purpose of
calling those who shall participate in the marriage feast.
If, therefore, it be true that we are in the end of this
Gospel age, it implies that a sufficient number of worthy
guests have been found, or, to reverse the proposition,
if a sufficient number of worthy guests have now been
found, it proves that we are in the close of this age. It
was after the wedding <emph>had been furnished</emph> with a proper
number of guests, that <q>the King came in</q> and began the
inspection of the guests. This, we have elsewhere shown,
marks the date April, 1878.</q>&mdash;Z. '98-137.
</p>

<p>
6:12. <hi rend='sans'>And I beheld when He had opened the sixth seal.</hi>&mdash;Disclosing
the events leading up to and associated with
the Lord's <foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>Parousia</foreign>, presence.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And, [lo,] there was a great earthquake.</hi>&mdash;<emph>Literally</emph>, the
great Lisbon earthquake, Nov. 1, 1755, which extended
over 4,000,000 square miles; shocked all Africa and Western
Europe, including Scandinavia and Greenland; slew
90,000 persons in Lisbon and many thousands elsewhere;
destroyed every church and convent in the city; caused a
tidal wave 60 feet high; split mountains from top to bottom;
sunk an immense area to a depth of 600 feet and
threw sailors to the decks hundreds of miles at sea. It
is believed to be the most severe earthquake shock ever
felt on the earth. <emph>Symbolically</emph>, the American Revolution,
21 years later (the underlying cause of the French Revolution);
the most successful and most extraordinary movement
upward of the lower strata of human society that
had ever been seen in the world up to that time. God
has so written Revelation that those who will not accept
the symbolical significance of what is expressly declared
to be a symbolical book (Rev. 1:1) may find literal fulfillments,
and thus lose the light they would otherwise get.
</p>

<pb n='120'/><anchor id='Pg120'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the sun became black as sackcloth of hair.</hi>&mdash;<emph>Literally</emph>
in the dark day of May 19, 1780, which extended
over 320,000 square miles. (D. 587.) <emph>Symbolically</emph>, the
light of the papal heavens (the pope) became darkened
when Napoleon fined the Pope ten million dollars, organized
the Papal territory into a republic and took the Pope
a prisoner to France. (C. 41, 55.) <emph>Symbolically</emph>, too, the
light of the true heavens, the Gospel light, the Truth, and
thus Christ Jesus, has become hidden from view of many
by the denial of the clergy of our day that we were bought
with the precious blood and by the teaching of the theory
of Evolution.&mdash;D. 590; Joel 2:10, 31.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the WHOLE moon became as blood.</hi>&mdash;<emph>Literally</emph> on
May 19, 1780. <emph>Symbolically</emph>, the creeds (the moon of the
papal heavens) have become repugnant, though still hypocritically
professed. <emph>Symbolically</emph>, also the light of the
Mosaic Law (the moon of the true heavens) has been
made to appear evil by the claims of the clergy that the
typical sacrifices were bloody and barbaric.&mdash;D. 590, 592.
</p>

<p>
6:13. <hi rend='sans'>And the stars of heaven fell unto the earth.</hi>&mdash;<emph>Literally</emph>,
the meteoric shower of Nov. 13, 1833, covering
11,000,000 square miles. (D. 588.) <emph>Symbolically</emph>, the bishops
and the priestly stars of the papacy fell from their positions
of power and influence over the minds and consciences
of the people. <emph>Symbolically</emph>, also, the Protestant pulpit
stars make a great display in coming down from spiritual
things to the Christian-citizenship-politics level.&mdash;D. 595.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Even as a fig tree.</hi>&mdash;<q>The fig tree in this prophecy may
be understood to signify the Jewish nation. (Matt. 24:32.)
If so, it is being signally fulfilled; for not only are thousands
of Israelites returning to Palestine, but the Zionist
movement, started recently, has assumed such proportions
as to justify a Convention of representatives from
all parts of the world to meet in Switzerland to put in
practical shape the proposal for the reorganization of a
Jewish state in Palestine. These buds will thrive, but will
bear no perfect fruit before October, 1914&mdash;the full end
of <q>Gentile Times.</q></q>&mdash;D. 604.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[Casteth] CASTING her untimely figs, when she is
shaken of a mighty wind.</hi>&mdash;The immature fruits of the Zionist
movement were dashed to the ground by the great war.
Thousands of the Jews already in Palestine were deported
to Egypt at the breaking out of the war. At this writing
the British are besieging Jerusalem and the Turks are
driving the Jews into the desert to perish rather than
permit them to remain and come under British control.
Out of this turmoil Zionism will soon start afresh and the
Jews become the actual rulers of their native land.
</p>

<pb n='121'/><anchor id='Pg121'/>

<p>
6:14. <hi rend='sans'>And the heaven departed as a scroll.</hi>&mdash;<q>The <q>sure
word of prophecy</q> indicates very clearly that the various
Protestant sects will form a coöperative union or federacy,
and that Catholicism and Protestantism will affiliate,
neither losing its identity. These are the two ends of
the ecclesiastical heavens which, as their confusion increases,
shall roll together <emph>as a scroll</emph> (Isaiah 34:4)
for their self-protection&mdash;as distinct and separate rolls, yet
in close proximity to each other.</q>&mdash;D. 258; Psa. 102:26.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>When it is rolled together.</hi>&mdash;<q>It will be impossible to re-establish
the present order, (1) because it has evidently
outlived its usefulness, and is inequitable under present
conditions; (2) because of the general diffusion of secular
knowledge; (3) because the discovery that priestcraft has
long blinded and fettered the masses with error and fear
will lead to a general disrespect for all religious claims
and teachings as of a piece with the discovered frauds;
(4) because religious people in general, not discerning
that God's time has come for a change of dispensation,
will ignore reason, logic, justice and Scripture in defending
the present order of things. It will be of little consequence
then that the ecclesiastical heavens (the religious powers,
Papal and Protestant) will have rolled together as a scroll.
(See Isaiah 34:4.) The combined religious power of
Christendom will be utterly futile against the rising tide
of anarchy when the dread crisis is reached. Before that
great army <q>all the host of heaven [the church nominal]
shall be dissolved, and the heavens shall be rolled together
as a scroll.</q></q>&mdash;D. 551.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And every mountain.</hi>&mdash;Kingdom.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And [island] HILL.</hi>&mdash;<q>Little hills</q> refer to governments
less autocratic than monarchies; but <q>hills</q> sometimes
refer to the sharpest, highest, most jagged mountain
peaks, and then mean the most autocratic of all governments.
This is evidently what is meant here.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Were moved out of [their] THE places.</hi>&mdash;Did not occupy
the same position as before with reference to the people.
The places were never <q>theirs,</q> but belong <q>to Him whose
right it is.</q> (Z. '05-253.) In recent years Turkey and Persia
have been granted parliaments; China, Russia and Portugal
have become republics; and other countries have become
vast socialist communities.&mdash;Rev. 16:20.
</p>

<p>
6:15. <hi rend='sans'>And the kings of the earth.</hi>&mdash;The aristocracy.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the great men.</hi>&mdash;The clergy. (Rev. 18:23, comment.)
Rendered <q>lords</q> in Mark 6:21. See Job 12:2.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[And the rich men,] and the chief captains, AND THE
RICH MEN.</hi>&mdash;The high military officers. Rendered <q>high
captains</q> in Mark 6:21. The magnates and financiers.
</p>

<pb n='122'/><anchor id='Pg122'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the mighty men.</hi>&mdash;The labor organizers.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And every bondman.</hi>&mdash;Member of a labor organization.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And every free man.</hi>&mdash;Other worker (if not a bond-slave
of Christ).
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Hid themselves in the dens.</hi>&mdash;See Isa. 2:19-21.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And in the rocks of the mountains.</hi>&mdash;<q>As the trouble increases,
men will seek, but in vain, for protection in the
great rocks and fortresses of society (Free Masonry, Odd
Fellowship, and Trades Unions, Guilds, Trusts, and all societies
secular and ecclesiastical), and in the mountains
(governments) of earth.</q>&mdash;B. 139; Jer. 3:23; Hos. 10:8.
</p>

<p>
6:16. <hi rend='sans'>And said to the mountains and rocks, Fall on us.</hi>&mdash;<q>The
Greek word <foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>epi</foreign>, here used, is generally translated <emph>on</emph>,
but has also the significance of <emph>over</emph> (Rev. 5:10) and <emph>about</emph>,
and is so translated many times in the common version.
The thought is that of protection, not of destruction. The
common view of this passage, that it teaches that wicked
men will get faith enough to pray for literal mountains to
fall, is absurd. The real fulfilment is already beginning:
the great, the rich, and no less the poor, are seeking to the
mountains and rocks and caves for shelter from the darkening
storm of trouble which all see is gathering.</q>&mdash;B. 139;
Hos. 10:8.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And hide us from the face.</hi>&mdash;Of Justice, now about to demand
an accounting for our stewardship.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of Him that sitteth on the Throne.</hi>&mdash;Jehovah.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And from the wrath of the Lamb.</hi>&mdash;Whose followers we
have falsely professed to be.
</p>

<p>
6:17. <hi rend='sans'>For the great day of [His] THEIR wrath is come.</hi>&mdash;The
wrath of the Father, the Son, and the glorified
saints.&mdash;Rev. 2:26, 27; Isa. 13:6-19; Zeph. 1:14-18.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And who shall be able to stand.</hi>&mdash;<q>The answer through
the Prophet is, 'He that hath clean hands [an honest life]
and a pure heart [a conscience void of offence toward God
and man]: he shall ascend into the mountain [Kingdom]
of the Lord and stand in the holy place.'</q> (Psa. 24:3, 4;
D. 582.) <q>Oh, what sorrow it gives us at times to behold
some not standing well the testing of this hour, some who
are developing tendencies of weakness, disloyalty to the
cause, ambition for name and fame or position, desire to
be greatest, tendencies to lord it over God's heritage, and
who, unless recovered, will be surely cut off from membership
in the Body, even though, as the Apostle declares, they
may be saved so as by fire, as members of the <q>great company.</q>&mdash;1
Cor. 3:15.</q> (Z. '06-309; Psa. 76:7.) The only ones
who will stand are the twelve tribes named in the next
chapter.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='123'/><anchor id='Pg123'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Revelation 7&mdash;Seventh Seal And Great Company</head>

<p>
7:1. <hi rend='sans'>And after [these things] THIS.</hi>&mdash;After the events
disclosed by the opening of the sixth seal had already been
amply fulfilled, but not signifying that further, more elaborate
and final fulfilments on an immense scale will not
take place later.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>I saw four angels standing on the four corners of the
earth.</hi>&mdash;The Little Flock, commissioned to carry the message
of Present Truth to the remotest outposts of civilization.
<q>They shall gather together His Elect from the four
winds.</q>&mdash;Matt. 24:31.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Holding the four winds of the earth.</hi>&mdash;<q>The winds of the
earth referred to here are, of course, symbolic. The
thought is that the winds from the four quarters&mdash;North,
East, South and West&mdash;are being held back, and that
when the restraint is withdrawn they will rush together,
and the result will be a whirlwind. Certain Scriptures tell
of a whirlwind that will be raised up from the coasts of
the earth. See Jer. 23:19; 25:32, 33; 30:23, 24. We do
not understand that this will be a physical whirlwind, but
this symbolic expression is used to convey the thought of
a severe strife of the powers of the air. These <q>powers of
the air,</q> or <q>winds,</q> are not powers of natural air, but are
the powers referred to by St. Paul when he speaks of
Satan as <q>the Prince of the power of the air,</q> (Eph. 2:2.)
Those spirits who have been under the control of Satan&mdash;the
fallen angels&mdash;were to be restrained until the Judgment
of the Great Day. (Jude 6.) The letting loose of these
winds, or air powers, would seem to show that God
will let go His hand of restraint; that He will have to do
with the permission of the terrible trouble that will come.
This outside influence will exercise a baneful effect upon
men, when finally granted the liberty. These fallen spirits
have been under restraint for these many centuries, but
they have exercised their influence to whatever extent they
have had permission. If they had had unlimited power
they would have wrecked the world long ago; but they
have been restrained. Apparently God will soon cease to
restrain the fallen angels, and they will then proceed to
vent their fury upon humanity, so that the whole earth
will be full of violence, the same as in the days of Noah.
<pb n='124'/><anchor id='Pg124'/>
The power manifested by the demons when loosed, will,
we believe, be with a view to the injury of mankind. <hi rend='italic'>We do
not know but that many of our readers will have a share
in that injury.</hi> We have every reason to suppose that, if
these fallen angels shall get loose, they will vent their
first anger upon the Lord's people.</q>&mdash;Z. '14-166.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That the wind should not blow.</hi>&mdash;<q>As soon as the power
that is now controlling them shall be removed, we shall
have a reign of evil all over the earth. The evil spirits
will do all the evil that is in their power, and this will constitute
the trial of all the fallen angels&mdash;the lifting of the
restraints to see whether they will go contrary to the Divine
will. All who thus manifest their alliance with evil
in any way will become subjects of the Second Death;
while others who show their loyalty to God will mark
themselves as worthy, presumably, of everlasting life. <hi rend='italic'>It
may be something in connection with the saints that will
constitute the test of these angels. This will be the key,
the secret connected with the awful Time of Trouble which
the Bible tells us will mark the conclusion of this Age and
which will constitute the forerunner or beginning of the
New Dispensation.</hi></q> (Z. '11-359.) <hi rend='italic'>THE TEST IS ON.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>On the earth, nor on the sea, nor on any tree.</hi>&mdash;<q>Symbolically,
the earth represents organized society; the sea
represents the disorganized masses (Dan. 7:2; Lu. 21:25;
Rev. 10:2, 8), and the trees represent the Household of
Faith. The letting loose suddenly of the fallen angels will
account well for the suddenness of the coming trouble,
which everywhere in the Scriptures is one of its particular
features&mdash;<q>in one hour</q>; <q>suddenly as travail upon a
woman</q>; <q>as it was in the days of Noah,</q> and <q>as it was in
the days of Lot</q></q>&mdash;Z. '11-157.
</p>

<p>
<q>There is only one way, so far as we can see, in which
these fallen angels can have a trial, their trial consisting
in having a fuller opportunity to sin, if they so desire, or
an opportunity to show, if they wish, that they are sick of
sin and desire to return to harmony with God. We cannot
think that God will allow this trial of the angels during
the Millennial Reign, for then, nothing shall hurt; nothing
shall destroy; Satan will be bound and all evil influences
will be restrained. No; it cannot be then. And in order
to be tried at all, these fallen angels must have certain
liberties granted, to prove them. Otherwise, where would
be their trial? Consequently, reasoning along this basis
(2 Peter 2:4), we reach the conclusion that the trial of
these fallen angels is in the near future&mdash;perhaps to some
extent already begun. In what way?</q> (Z. '11-358.) He that
hath ears to hear, let him hear!&mdash;1 Cor. 6:2.
</p>

<pb n='125'/><anchor id='Pg125'/>

<p>
7:2. <hi rend='sans'>And I saw another angel.</hi>&mdash;The Messenger of the
Covenant; our Lord Jesus at His Second Advent.&mdash;Mal.
3:1.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Ascending from the east.</hi>&mdash;<q>This speaks symbolically of
the Sun of Righteousness and its full light of Divine truth
and blessing scattering the shadows of sin, ignorance,
superstition and death, and healing and restoring the willing
and obedient of humanity.</q>&mdash;D. 653; Luke 1:78; Mal. 4:2.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Having the seal of the living God.</hi>&mdash;The seventh seal.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And He cried with a loud voice.</hi>&mdash;Pastor Russell was the
voice used. Beautiful voice of the Lord: strong, humble,
wise, loving, gentle, just, merciful, faithful, self-sacrificing;
one of the noblest, grandest characters of all history
<q>I lift my pen, not in defense of any doctrine, creed or
dogma, but in defense of a man, in defense of fairness,
justice and righteousness. Pastor C. T. Russell, of Brooklyn,
N. Y., stands out prominently as a target for the
pulpits and religious press of the country today. I believe
there is no one more bitterly persecuted, harshly condemned,
woefully misrepresented and misunderstood than
this fearless, conscientious man of God. No infidel writer,
such as Hume, Voltaire or Ingersoll, ever suffered such
ruthless attacks as have been made upon Mr. Russell.
Whether this persecution and misrepresentation is due to
prejudice or ignorance of this man's real character and
writing, is not for me to say, but I believe both are
elements that play a part in the widespread criticism uttered
both from the pulpit and the press. Naturally, men
will resent any attack made upon the creed of their persuasion,
for they hold to their religious creed and affiliations
with more tenacity than they realize, until some
strong mind, backed by Scripture proof, begins to uproot
their doctrine by showing their inconsistencies and errors.
This is what Mr. Russell proceeds to do. As a logician
and theologian he is doubtless without a peer today. In
his research for Biblical Truth and harmony he is without
a parallel in this Age. Without a blemish in his character,
with the loftiest ideals of God, and the possibilities of man,
he towers like a giant, unmatched. His defects fade into
insignificance. He has been too busy spreading Divine
Truth, as he honestly sees it, to waste time in frivolous
speculation in matters not in some way connected with
man's future state, as outlined in <q>The Plan of the Ages.</q>
Unselfish, liberal and courteous to Christians of all denominations,
but fearlessly condemning, in unmeasured
terms, the errors and inconsistencies in their creeds, as he
sees them, he ranks with immortal benefactors, and is
stamping his opinion on the world as no other man has
<pb n='126'/><anchor id='Pg126'/>
done since the days of the Reformation. Efforts to throttle
the press to prevent the publication of his sermons have
repeatedly been made. Why this opposition? Why would
any one oppose investigation or revelation and searching
the Scriptures? Why? What right has any one to prevent
free thought, free speech, or the freedom of the press?
What manner of men are we? Let men, preachers or what
not, beware of blocking the way of such a man. Jesus
said, <q>And whosoever shall offend one of these little ones
that believe in Me, it is better that a millstone were
hanged about his neck, and he were cast into the sea.</q>
Mark 9:42. Better be like Gamaliel in the days of the
Apostles, when St. Peter and others were on trial. Gamaliel
rose up and said, <q>Refrain from these men, and let
them alone, for if this work be of men it will come to
naught; but if it be of God, ye cannot overthrow it, for ye
fight against God.</q></q>&mdash;Prof. S. A. Ellis.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To the four angels.</hi>&mdash;The church in the flesh, the Harvest
workers.&mdash;Matt. 24:31.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To whom it was given.</hi>&mdash;By completing the Harvest work
and thus releasing the restraints on the evil spirits.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To hurt the earth.</hi>&mdash;Throw order-loving peoples into desperation.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the sea.</hi>&mdash;So enrage the masses, not under religious
restraint, as to make it impossible to control them.
</p>

<p>
7:3. <hi rend='sans'>Saying, Hurt not the earth.</hi>&mdash;Do not complete the
Harvest work too soon, and thus allow the demons to
invade the minds of men until the appointed time. (Many
writers claim that this has already happened to the ex-Czar
of Russia, to Kaiser Wilhelm and to the chief of
modern <q>evangelists.</q>)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Neither the sea.</hi>&mdash;I will see to it that the work of Harvest
shall hold in check those not under religious restraint
until the work of Harvest is finished and the demons are
released, when, maddened by the obsession of the evil
spirits, there are no lengths to which the godless will not
presume to go. All Bible Students, followers of Pastor
Russell, know how urgently he has warned for forty years
that this deluge of evil spirits is sure to come.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Nor the trees.</hi>&mdash;See Rev. 8:7. Have you enjoyed this
work thus far? Are you convinced it is of the Lord&mdash;prepared
under His guidance? Have you carefully and
prayerfully read the comments on Rev. 7:1? Then brace
yourself for the truth that it is evidently God's purpose
soon to allow the minds of many of His little ones to become
an open battle ground, upon which the fallen
angels shall be judged, and the manner in which we meet
the tests will prove our worthiness of crowns at the same
<pb n='127'/><anchor id='Pg127'/>
time that it proves these disobedient spirits unworthy of
life on any plane. This is something with which some
but not many are yet familiar. Truly, we know the
Apostle in writing of this evil day says, <q>We wrestle not
against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against
powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world,
against spiritual wicked ones in heavenly places</q> (Eph.
6:12). Truly, we know the Lord Jesus, at the First Advent
began His ministry with forty days of conflict with the
Adversary, who all that time sought to sway His mind
(Matt. 4:1-11). Truly, we have reason to believe He must
have had other terrible battles when He spent all night
in prayer, and especially when He was so depressed in the
garden of Gethsemane. But without actual experience it is
quite impossible to conceive of the intensity of such struggles
as Eph. 6:12 suggests. The base of the brain is seized
as in a vise. Interpretations of Scripture, ingenious, but
misleading beyond description, are projected into the mind
as water might be projected through a hose. Visions may
be tried, wonderful illuminations of the mind as by a soft
but glorious greenish or yellowish haze. Seductive suggestions
may be made, based on circumstances of the
environment. Offers of inspiration may be made. The
privilege of sleep may be taken away for days at a stretch.
All this is with the object of forcing the unfortunate into
at least temporary insanity so as to destroy his influence
and, if possible, his faith in God. Failing in all other attempts,
the mind may be flooded with thoughts that are
vile beyond description. <hi rend='italic'>THEN REMEMBER THE VOW.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The fact that Jehovah intends some unique experiences
for the antitypical Isaac may be judged from the fact that
between Isaac's conception (Gen. 17:19 and 18:10) and his
birth (Gen. 21:1) occurred the destruction of Sodom
(Gen. 18:16 to end of 19th Chap.) and <hi rend='italic'>Abraham's denial
of Sarah</hi> (Gen. 20). But reading the latter account, the
child of God is comforted with God's care of His little
ones (Gen. 20:3) with the assurance that none of Satan's
plans can mature (Gen. 20:18) without the Lord's permission.
Isaac was a type of the complete Christ; and if now
The Christ is complete, as we believe, and ready to be
born into the Kingdom, we should not be surprised at anything
that might look like our repudiation at the Father's
hands. If He pours the cup, it will only be because He
knows that we can drink it, and because He wishes to
prove to angels and to men that we are worthy of the
honors He is to give us.&mdash;Lu. 22:42, 43; 1 Tim. 1:16.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Till we.</hi>&mdash;You <q>four angels,</q> Harvest workers in the flesh,
and Myself, the Lord of the Harvest.
</p>

<pb n='128'/><anchor id='Pg128'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Have sealed the servants of our God.</hi>&mdash;See Rev. 19:20;
14:1. Satan is a diligent student of time prophecy (Luke
12:39); but not having the Holy Spirit he is unable to
reach accurate conclusions. Seeing a definite Plan, and
a definite time for every important feature of that Plan,
his aim has ever been to thwart the purposes of the
Almighty. This attempt to destroy the Seed began with
the death of Abel and still continues. No doubt Satan
<emph>believed</emph> the Millennial Kingdom was due to be set up in
1915; and no doubt, also, he knew that seven years prior
to the time of the setting up of that kingdom the restraints
upon the evil spirits would be lifted. Be that as it may,
there is evidence that the establishment of the Kingdom
in Palestine will probably be in 1925, ten years later than
we once calculated. The 70 jubilees, reckoned as 50 years
each, expire October, 1925. (B. 186.) Gen. 15:1-16:3, read
connectedly, indicates that Abraham's vision as to when
he would receive the Kingdom was not granted until ten
years after the Covenant was made, or 2035 B. C. The
ages of the animals offered aggregated eleven years,
which, applied prophetically, on the scale of a year for a
day, equal 3960 years, the length of time from the date of
the visions to A. D. 1925 (Z. '07-79). It seems conclusive
that the hour of Nominal Zion's travail is fixed for the
Passover of 1918. (See Rev. 3:14.) That will be 7 years
prior to 1925. At that time there is every reason to believe
the fallen angels will invade the minds of many of the
Nominal Church people, driving them to exceedingly unwise
conduct and leading to their destruction at the hands
of the enraged masses, who will later be dragged to the
same fate. The great war now raging is most certainly
the work of evil spirits, and the Kaiser is not the only
clever ruler who has been deceived by evil spirits, as history
will sometime show.&mdash;Lu. 12:56.
</p>

<p>
If our reasoning is correct, we inquire whether there was
any indication of a move on Satan's part 7 years prior to
1915, showing that he expected the restraints to be removed
from the evil spirits at that time; and we answer
that there was something very definite indicated at that
time. In the Vow, advised by Pastor Russell in that year,
and in the experiences of many, for and against it, it is
plain that the Enemy <emph>then</emph> attempted to come in like a
flood, but was held back&mdash;restrained until the sealing work
is done. (Matt. 10:25; Luke 22:42-44; Heb. 12:4; Isa.
63:3.) After the demons have been turned loose on the
<emph>swine</emph> class, we shall see what happens. (Matt. 7:6;
8:31-34.) Those now fearful that they might learn something
will be terror-stricken then for a different reason.
</p>

<pb n='129'/><anchor id='Pg129'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>In their foreheads.</hi>&mdash;<q>The storm is held in check until
the faithful servants of God are <q>sealed in their foreheads</q>
(Exod. 13:9; 28:36, 38. Deut. 6:8; Ezek. 9:4-6; Rev. 14:1),
i. e., until such are given an intellectual appreciation which
will not only comfort them, and shield them, but also be a
mark, seal or evidence of their sonship, as indicated by our
Lord when He promised that the Holy Spirit should show
to the faithful <q>things to come.</q> (John 16:13.)</q> (B. 169.) When
the demon test comes, those who have the mark of sonship
(Ezek. 9:2-4) will know it and will stand the test,
while all others will surely fail. A letter from one of the
Bethel workers, written shortly after Pastor Russell's
death, says: <q>About three months ago I asked several
questions at the table, the last one being as follows, <q>Since
I now see that the Jewish Time of Trouble did not end
until the year 73 A. D., as I fully proved to myself by consulting
the historians, what then are we to expect in the
parallel year 1918?</q> Brother Russell put the question to
three prominent brethren, all of whom replied that they
did not know, but were willing to wait and see. When he
called upon me I said, <q>Since the year 73 A. D. saw the
complete overthrow of nominal Natural Israel in Palestine,
so in the parallel year 1918, I infer we should look
for the complete overthrow of nominal Spiritual Israel;
i. e., the fall of Babylon. (Rev. 18.)</q> Brother Russell replied:
<q>Exactly. That is exactly the inference to draw.</q></q> The
conclusion of the Church's career comes first. (Rev. 3:14.)
</p>

<p>
<q>If you see the <q>door</q> of opportunity for sacrifice and
service open before you, enter in. But enter quickly; for
the night of darkness and of intense opposition to the
truth will ere long be upon us and will hinder you from
engaging in the service. <q>The morning cometh, and also
the night.</q> <q>The night cometh in which no man can work.</q>
When that is true, you may know that <q>the door is shut.</q>
that all the wise virgins have entered in, that all have been
proved, and that all vacancies have been acceptably filled.
All the special <q>servants of God</q> having by that time been
<q>sealed in their foreheads</q> (given an intellectual appreciation
of God's Plan), the four winds will be loosed and will
produce the great <q>whirlwind</q> of trouble in the midst of
which the remnant of the Elijah class will be <q>changed,</q>
and exalted to Kingdom glory.</q>&mdash;C. 225.
</p>

<p>
7:4. <hi rend='sans'>And I heard the number of them which were
sealed.</hi>&mdash;<q>We have every reason to believe that the definite,
fixed number of the Elect is that several times stated in
Revelation, namely, 144,000 <q>redeemed from amongst
men.</q></q> (F. 179; Rev. 14:1.) This is the equivalent of one
saint fully developed for each five days of the Age.
</p>

<pb n='130'/><anchor id='Pg130'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And there were sealed 144,000.</hi>&mdash;On this point one of Pastor
Russell's coworkers has well said: <q>That this is not
a symbolical, but an exact number, seems certain from the
fact that, in the same chapter reference is made to another
company, also spirit-begotten. In the 9th verse we read:
<q>I beheld, and lo, a great multitude which no man could
number.</q> It is not probable that this multitude is so great
that no one could actually count them, but rather that
none can state their number, God having left it indefinite.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of all the tribes of the children of Israel.</hi>&mdash;<q>As a name,
Israel signified <q>The people blessed of the Lord,</q> <q>The
people of God,</q> <q>The Lord's people.</q>&mdash;2 Chron. 7:14.</q> (D. 654;
Gal. 6:16; Rom. 9:6-8.) Each of the saints is reckoned
as belonging to one of the twelve tribes of <q>Israelites indeed,</q>
which tribes bear the names of the twelve patriarchs
of natural Israel. In every family each child is beloved for
some characteristic peculiarly its own; and in the meaning
of the names of the children of Israel we may recognize certain
of the qualities which make each overcomer precious
in the Father's sight.
</p>

<p>
7:5. <hi rend='sans'>Of the tribe of Juda were sealed twelve thousand.</hi>&mdash;Juda
signifies <hi rend='italic'>Celebrated</hi>, lauded, praised. Nothing is more
praiseworthy than justice, noble-mindedness, the doing to
everybody as one would wish to be done by. Our Lord
was the Just One of the tribe of Juda. All who knew
Pastor Russell intimately, recognized that justice was the
foundation principle of his character. The mention of the
Lord's tribe first shows that there is a Divine order in
the arrangement of the names, inasmuch as that order is
different from the order of the birth of Jacob's sons.
Doubtless the brightest crowns will be worn by those that
are wholly without self-love, either in heart or in life.&mdash;Gen.
38:12-26; 43:3-10; 44:14, 34; 46:28.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the tribe of Reuben [were sealed] twelve thousand.</hi>&mdash;Reuben's
name signifying <q><hi rend='italic'>See ye, a son, provided in my affliction</hi></q>
or <hi rend='italic'>The Pity of God</hi>, seems to refer to the five-talented
brethren who make their calling and election sure.
To be possessed of ability and means to get the fullest
enjoyment out of life, and to sacrifice it all gladly, requires
a standard of character so high that the Lord expressly
states that not many attain it. (1 Cor. 1:26; Gen. 37:21,
22, 29, 30; 42:22, 37.) A taint of love of the world (spiritual
uncleanness) is all that prevents from attaining the
very highest place.&mdash;Gen. 35:22; 49:3, 4; 2 Cor. 7:1.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the tribe of Gad [were sealed] twelve thousand.</hi>&mdash;Gad's
name, signifying <hi rend='italic'>A troop of children cometh</hi>, seems
to give the third highest honor to those faithful men and
women who have been blessed of God in bringing many
<pb n='131'/><anchor id='Pg131'/>
of their own descendants into the Divine family. Instances
are on record where as many as twelve children
in one family have all come into the light of Present
Truth and consecrated, as a result of the life and teachings
of a noble father and mother. There is a family interest
on the part of the Heavenly Father in every family that
rightly seeks His face. Not a crown is available for others,
so long as even one child of one of the consecrated is
ready to run for that crown. <q>The promise is unto you
[first], and to your children [next], and [after that] to
all that are afar off, even as many as the Lord your God
shall call.</q> (Acts 2:39; 1 Cor. 7:14.) <q>Of the childhood
and life of the patriarch Gad nothing is preserved. At the
time of the descent into Egypt, seven sons are ascribed
to him, remarkable from the fact that a majority of their
names have plural terminations, as if those of families
rather than persons.</q> (McC.)&mdash;Gen. 46:16; Num. 26:15-18.
</p>

<p>
7:6. <hi rend='sans'>Of the tribe of Aser [were sealed] twelve thousand.</hi>&mdash;Aser's
name signifies <hi rend='italic'>Happy</hi>. <q>And Leah said,
Happy am I, for the daughters will call me blessed: and
she called his name Asher.</q> (Gen. 30:13.) Apparently
the fourth highest place of honor goes to the happy Christians.
Wherever else the long-faced saints go they do not
get into the Asher tribe. <q>Rejoice in the Lord alway: and
again I say rejoice. <hi rend='italic'>Finally</hi>, my brethren, rejoice in the
Lord.</q>&mdash;Phil. 4:4; 3:1; 2 Chron. 20:22.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the tribe of Nephtalim [were sealed] twelve thousand.</hi>&mdash;Naphtali's
name signifies <hi rend='italic'>Great wrestlings</hi>, and suggests
that the fifth highest place will go to those who have
especially sought the face of the Father in prayer. By
his birth Naphtali was allied to Dan, the class that goes
into the Second Death. (Gen. 35:25; 49:17.) The suggestion
is not strained, then, that here is a class that has
overcome largely because they have so much appreciated,
and have used to such good purpose, the privilege of seeking
the Father's face in prayer.&mdash;Luke 11:5-13; James 1:5;
3:17.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the tribe of Manasses [were sealed] twelve thousand.</hi>&mdash;Manasseh's
name signifies <hi rend='italic'>Forgetting</hi>, <q>For God hath
made me forget all my toil and all my father's House.</q>
(Gen. 41:51.) The sixth honor apparently refers to a class
having naturally very strong human attachments, for the
dear ones of their earthly families, and yet love the Lord
still more. Great is the love, great the faithfulness of
those that hear and heed the Divine proposal: <q>Hearken,
O daughter, and consider, and incline thine ear; forget
also thine own people, and thy father's House.</q>&mdash;Psa.
45:10.
</p>

<pb n='132'/><anchor id='Pg132'/>

<p>
7:7. <hi rend='sans'>Of the tribe of Simeon [were sealed] twelve thousand.</hi>&mdash;Simeon
signifies <hi rend='italic'>Hearing</hi>. <q>Because the Lord hath
heard that I was hated, He hath therefore given me this
son also.</q> (Gen. 29:33.) This suggests that the seventh
place of honor is reserved for those who have been hated
in their home circles because of faithfulness to the Word
of the Lord. The Lord saw that the beauties of their
characters would only shine forth to the best advantage
if they were made ready in just such environment. How
sweet, how beautiful, is the patient heart developed under
such conditions!&mdash;Rom. 5:3; Col. 1:11, 12; 1 Pet. 1:7; 4:12;
5:10; Rom. 8:17; 2 Tim. 2:12; James 1:12.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the tribe of Levi [were sealed] twelve thousand.</hi>&mdash;Levi's
name signifies <hi rend='italic'>A joining</hi>. <q>This time will my husband
be joined unto me, because I have borne him three
sons.</q> The next honor is apparently reserved for those
who have literally sacrificed all their possessions in this
world in order that they might be more closely joined to
the Lord and His service. Levi had no inheritance in the
land, as a tribe, and as an individual the only event
recorded in the life of the patriarch is one of destruction
of the unfaithful.&mdash;Gen. 34:25-29.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the tribe of Issachar [were sealed] twelve thousand.</hi>&mdash;Issachar
signifies <hi rend='italic'>There is reward</hi>, or <hi rend='italic'>He brings reward</hi>.
<q>God hath given me my hire, because I have given my
maiden to my husband.</q> <q>Issachar is a strong ass couching
down between two burdens: and he saw that rest was
good, and the land that it was pleasant; and bowed his
shoulder to bear.</q> (Gen. 30:18; 49:14, 15.) This seems
to signify that the next honor goes to the zealous, those
who joyfully undertake, in the Lord's name and cause, to
work hard for the glory of His name.&mdash;1 Cor. 15:58.
</p>

<p>
7:8. <hi rend='sans'>Of the tribe of Zabulon [were sealed] twelve
thousand.</hi>&mdash;Zebulun signifies <hi rend='italic'>Habitation</hi> or <hi rend='italic'>Dwelling</hi>. It
signifies the blessed satisfaction that comes to those who,
like the Master, during their earthly pilgrimages have not
known where to lay their heads; but, although they have
wrestled with poverty throughout life's little day, have
nevertheless held faithfully to the Lord, serving Him, with
limited education, strength, talents and opportunities, in
hope of finally reaching <q>The Home where changes never
come, nor pain, nor sorrow, toil nor care.</q> What a homecoming
they will have! In the Father's House of many
mansions theirs will be the happiest home.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the tribe of [Joseph were sealed] BENJAMIN twelve
thousand.</hi>&mdash;Benjamin signified <hi rend='italic'>Son of my Sorrow</hi> originally,
but the name was changed to signify <hi rend='italic'>Son of the
right hand</hi>. The youngest of Jacob's children, he seems
<pb n='133'/><anchor id='Pg133'/>
in some aspects to typify the Great Company class (Z. '81-1-7),
but succeeds in gaining the higher reward, probably
because of being the companions of those that occupy
more advanced positions in the Body. Thus the humble-minded
and faithful servants and <emph>companions</emph> may and
do fill up that which is behind of the afflictions of Christ,
even though their personal sufferings be slight.&mdash;Heb.
10:33.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the tribe of [Benjamin were sealed] JOSEPH twelve
thousand.</hi>&mdash;The Sinaitic MS. mentions Joseph last, with
peculiar fitness. Joseph was one of the most beautiful
characters of the Bible. His name signifies <hi rend='italic'>Whom may
God increase</hi>. He had so many virtues that it is inadvisable
to attempt their enumeration, but the story is told at
length in Gen. 37-50. He is one of the very few characters
named in the Bible about whom nothing uncomplimentary
is expressed. He well represents all the other members
of the Divine family, all of whom have attained the Divine
likeness in their hearts and given expression to that
likeness as well as the frailties and weaknesses of the
flesh would permit.
</p>

<p>
It will be noticed that the tribes of Dan and Ephraim
are omitted from the foregoing list. Dan evidently represents
the class that goes into the Second Death. The
name signifies <q>God hath judged me.</q> (Gen. 30:6.) We
know that all God's judgments are just and look for the
reason for Dan's rejection. Jacob prophesied that it would
be Dan <q>that biteth the horse heels, so that his rider shall
fall backward.</q> (Gen. 49:17.) Horses are symbols of
doctrines. Dan evidently represents a class tampering
with doctrines, resulting in the overthrow of the New
Creature. A study of the history of the tribe of Dan confirms
this. Originally Dan was given one of the choicest
parts of Palestine, one of the most fertile and the most
secure. It was completely embraced by its two brother
tribes Ephraim and Benjamin, while on the south-east and
south it joined Judah, and was thus surrounded by the
three most powerful states of the whole confederacy. The
Danites however failed to conquer the land originally assigned
to them (representing the failure of the New Creature
to gain the victory over the mind of the flesh) and
chose another inheritance to the far north (Judges 18:1-31).
This selection of the farthest north resembles Satan's
similar choice (Isa. 14:13) and suggests that the Danite
New Creatures were led away from their original inheritance
by ambition. The context shows an unreasonably
high valuation of their own judgment and a wilful interference
with the priestly office, and this we may judge has
<pb n='134'/><anchor id='Pg134'/>
been a frequent offense of those who commit the great sin
that lies just beyond the sin of presumption. (Psa. 19:13;
2 Sam. 6:6, 7.) <hi rend='italic'>THE TEST IS ON</hi>; take heed! take heed!
</p>

<p>
The half tribe of Ephraim represents the Great Company,
mainly to be found in the Nominal Church. They
are more or less intoxicated with error (Isa. 28:1, 7), they
fear to let go of their idols of creeds and catechisms (Hos.
4:17), they are, in a way, half-baked Christians, not
wholly devoted to the Lord&mdash;<q>Ephraim is a cake not
turned.</q> (Hos. 7:8.) From first to last the prophecy of
Hosea is eloquent with Jehovah's pleadings to the Great
Company class not to miss the great prize of Immortality.
</p>

<p>
7:9. <hi rend='sans'>After this, I beheld, and lo, a great multitude.</hi>&mdash;When
the Apostle tells us in 2 John 8, <q>Look to yourselves
that ye lose not those things which we have wrought, but
that ye receive a full reward,</q> he is teaching that a
Heavenly reward may be gained that is not as full as if a
course more pleasing to the Heavenly Father is pursued.
</p>

<p>
Instead of teaching that the saved of our race will all be
saved to the same thing, the Scriptures show two degrees
or kinds of Heavenly salvation, and two degrees or kinds
of earthly salvation. In the second chapter of Genesis the
stream which went forth from the Garden of Eden was
divided into four parts. This is a Scriptural recognition
of the fact that from Adam, the original fountain of life,
will flow four streams: The Little Flock, who are to sit
down with Christ in His Throne; the Great Company, who
are to stand before the Throne, having the palms of
martyrdom but without the crowns of glory; the Ancient
Worthies, the Jewish fathers, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob,
Daniel, etc., who are to be made princes in all the earth;
and the world of mankind, who will constitute the subjects
of the Kingdom over which the Ancient Worthies will
rule. The same lesson is taught in the division of the
Levites into four camps, each located on a different side
of the Tabernacle. (Num. 3:15; F. 128, 129.) It is also
taught in the Apostle's statement in 2 Tim. 2:20, that in
God's great House there will ultimately be found four
classes of vessels to His praise.
</p>

<p>
The question for the saints is not as to which of the
earthly classes may ultimately include them, for they have
given up their earthly hopes in exchange for Heavenly
hopes. The question is whether they shall be wise virgins,
faithful students of the Word, building with the gold, silver
and precious stones of Divine Truth instead of foolish
<emph>virgins</emph> (pure of heart) (Matt. 25:2; C. 91; F. 75) who build
faith structures with the wood, hay and stubble of human
tradition. The Apostle says the fiery trials of life will
<pb n='135'/><anchor id='Pg135'/>
try every man's work so as by fire, and intimates that
those who do not build wisely shall suffer loss&mdash;not go into
eternal torment, but fail to gain the great reward which
otherwise might be theirs. (1 Cor. 3:15; T. 69.) The question
is whether as branches in Christ the Vine, to go onward
to fruit-bearing, or as other branches, to be principally
devoted to leaves (professions), or tendrils (feelers after
earthly honors and emoluments). (John 15:2; F. 78, 170.)
Christ said of a similar class in His day, <q>How can ye believe
[effectively] which receive honor one of another, and
seek not the praise which cometh from God only!</q> The
question is whether we are to be termed children of disobedience
(Col. 3:6; Z. '99-140) because, though God's children,
we have failed to mortify, or put to death, our earthly
and sinful tendencies; whether we are sinners against the
covenant we have made with God to lay down our lives
in His service (Psa. 1:1; Z. '00-281), whether, like Lot's
wife, we look back to the earthly good things we have
given up (Gen. 19:26; C. 194), or whether we retain the
singleness of heart and purpose, without which the prize
of the High Calling cannot be gained.
</p>

<p>
The question is whether, as babes in Christ, we shall
wink at the unscriptural divisions of God's people, into
followers of Paul or Apollos, Cephas or Luther, Calvin or
Wesley (1 Cor. 3:4; D. 17); whether, like Rahab, we shall be
in the citadel of error when it falls, or like Joshua who
caused it to fall (Josh. 6:25; Z. '07-267); whether, like the
fitches and cummin, we shall easily divest ourselves of the
entangling associations of life, represented by the pods
from which the fitches and cummin are so easily shaken,
or whether we shall be like the <q>bread-corn</q> which requires
a vast amount of threshing before it will let go of
the close-clinging chaff. (Isa. 28:27; Z. '84-1-4.) The question
is whether, like the rejected members of Gideon's
army, we shall forget our mission, and bury our heads in
the waters of truth; or whether, with equal appreciation
of its message, we shall remember why the Lord gave it
to us, and shall drink of it, with our eyes out over the
horizon, seeking to serve, to spend and be spent in the
Master's service. (Judg. 7:6; Z. '07-331.) The question is
whether, like Caleb and Joshua, we shall retain our confidence
in Him who has called us, and bring back true
reports of the land we hope ere long to possess, or,
whether we shall be of the larger company that through
fear and faint-heartedness never enter in. (Num. 13:31;
Z. '07-251.) Shall we rejoice to lay down our lives for the
Lord's brethren, or shall we, through fear of this sacrificial
death, be all our lifetime subject to bondage? (Heb. 2:15;
<pb n='136'/><anchor id='Pg136'/>
T. 70, 71.) The question is whether we shall be like the
servant who hid his Lord's talent in the earth (in earthly
enjoyments and pursuits) (Matt. 25:24; Z. '01-61; Z. '06-318),
whether we shall be double minded, having some idea of
attaining heavenly things and some idea of getting all we
can of earthly things (Jas. 1:8; Z. '07-316), whether, like
Obadiah, we are merely friendly toward the Truth and
those who stand for the Truth, but conceal our interest for
fear of the consequences to ourselves and our families.&mdash;1
Ki. 18:3; Z. '04-221.
</p>

<p>
If, in these tests of faith and character, we come off
victorious in the Lord's sight, we shall not need to be of
those who wash their robes and make them white in the
blood of the Lamb, in the great tribulation with which this
Age will close, but shall keep our robes unspotted so that
they will not need such a general cleansing. If we have
fled to the Lord before the winter time of His disfavor has
come upon the man-made systems of our day, we shall be
spared the rigors of the flight, of which He said, <q>Pray
that your flight be not in <emph>the winter</emph> [of 1917-1918 (?)]</q>
(Matt. 20:10; D. 578), and we shall be spared, too, the bitter
disappointment of saying at that time, <q>The Harvest [the
time of special favor] is past, the summer is ended and
we are not saved</q> [not saved with the chiefest salvation,
with the salvation to which we aspired]. (Jer. 8:20; D. 578.)
In the time of Zion's travail these children of God will all
be delivered. (Isa. 66:8; Z. '94-135.) Let us be glad of
our hope that we shall be of the Man-child delivered before
that travail comes. Let us hope we may not be of the
lambs (Isa. 34:6; D. 17) or the goats found together in the
nominal sheepfolds when the time has come to wind up
present ecclesiastical systems. All down the Age, some
of God's children have been <q>turned over to Satan for the
destruction of the flesh, that the spirit might be saved in
the day of the Lord</q> (1 Cor. 5:5; T. 69, 71), because they
have not lived up to their covenants. The sufferings of
the scapegoat class, turned into the wilderness, dying of
thirst, hunger, snake-bites, thorns, briars, burrs, fleas or
attacks of wild animals, were far greater than those of
the Lord's goat, killed sacrificially. (Lev. 16:7-10; T. 60.)
Those who withhold from the Lord what they have promised
Him suffer far more than those who fight manfully
the good fight of faith and lay hold with both hands on the
hope set before us.
</p>

<p>
The Great Company class will say <q>Alleluia</q> as soon as
they perceive that the Church is complete. (Rev. 19:1;
A. 240; F. 128.) But like Rebecca's damsels of old, they
must go the same long journey as the Bride class, only to
<pb n='137'/><anchor id='Pg137'/>
be received as servants in the end. (Gen. 24:61; Psa.
45:14; F. 121, 171.) Shall we enter fully into our inheritance
now, while the door is still open to do and dare in
the Master's Cause; or shall we be like the class mentioned
in Ezekiel 44 that finds the door shut because the
start is made too late, and must know that forever the
Heavenly Priesthood, the prize of the High Calling, is
closed, and that the most that can be then attained is the
place as keepers or servants in the Temple? (Ezek. 44:1-14;
Z. '05-269.) Let us rejoice if we are heirs of salvation
at all; but let us resolve, by God's grace, that we shall,
in the words of our text, <q>Look to ourselves, that we lose
not those things that we have wrought, but that we receive
a full reward</q>&mdash;all that the Father is pleased to give
to those who love Him supremely.
</p>

<p>
<q>What we see going on about us seems natural to our
minds. The way in which other people spend time and
money is a temptation to the Lord's people which must
be <emph>steadfastly resisted</emph>. For us to do what others do, and
to devote to the Lord's service only what the world considers
a reasonable day's work, would not be fulfilling our
Covenant of Sacrifice at all. Those who seek merely to
do right, and to put in eight hours or so a day faithfully,
after the manner of the world, will be judged from this
standpoint; and they will merely obtain a place in the
Great Company. They are not fulfilling the conditions
of the Covenant of Sacrifice.</q>&mdash;Z. '14-71.
</p>

<p>
<q>We do not think we should understand the Scriptures
to teach that the Great Company will attain to the same
degree of spiritual development as the Little Flock. They
fail to display that love and zeal which the Lord has set
as the mark for participation in the Royal Priesthood.</q>
(Z. '14-68.) <q>In determining to sacrifice themselves piecemeal
when and how they and their friends might please,
is the primary mistake.</q> (Z. '96-191.) <q>While the living
members of the Bride are being separated from others by
the <emph>Truth</emph>, the ears of this class are dull of hearing and
they are slow to believe and slow to act.</q> (A. 240.) <q>In one
parable the Lord styles this class a wicked and slothful
servant. He does not deny him the honor of being a servant,
He does not charge him with becoming an enemy.
He is counted wicked and slothful because, having undertaken
certain responsibilities as a servant, he has failed
to manifest the proper spirit of earnest devotion.</q>&mdash;Z. '07-315.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which no man could number.</hi>&mdash;<q>Whose number no man
is able to tell (i. e., it is not a foreordained or fixed number&mdash;none
were called to be of this company.)</q>&mdash;Rev. 5:11.
</p>

<pb n='138'/><anchor id='Pg138'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of all nations, and kindreds, and people, and tongues.</hi>&mdash;<q>As
the number of the Bride of Christ is to be 144,000, it
would be reasonable to think that each number of this
class may have 144,000 to look after, as 144,000 x 144,000
equals 20,736,000,000 (twenty billions seven hundred and
thirty-six millions), evidently just about the right number
to be cared for&mdash;144,000 would be quite a host for each
individual of the Bride class to look after. So we can see
the necessity for the work of the Great Company.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Question
Meeting.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Stood before the Throne.</hi>&mdash;Not in the Throne, as in the
case of the Bride. (A. 214.) <q>The Scriptures inform us that
as that which is begotten of the flesh is flesh, so that
which is begotten of the Spirit is spirit. That is to say,
that whoever has been begotten of the Holy Spirit has
experienced a change of nature so radical that it would
be impossible for him to share a resurrection with the
world on the human plane.</q>&mdash;Z. '07-316.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And before the Lamb.</hi>&mdash;<q>Since their hearts are loyal to
the Redeemer, and since they maintain their faith in the
precious blood and hold fast and do not deny the same,
therefore the Lord Jesus, the Advocate, the Captain of our
Salvation, who leads the Very Elect to glory through the
steps of willing sacrifice, will lead these to a spiritual
blessing&mdash;to perfection on a lower plane of spirit-being&mdash;because
they have trusted in Him and have not denied
His name or His work.</q>&mdash;F. 169.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Clothed with white robes.</hi>&mdash;<q>They let slip their opportunity
for becoming members of the Bride; but they are,
nevertheless, <emph>virgins</emph>, pure in their heart-intentions.</q>&mdash;F. 127;
Rev. 7:14.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And palms in their hands.</hi>&mdash;<q>The palm is especially the
symbol of <emph>martyrdom</emph>. The palm of martyrdom has become
in the language of the Church, a classical and sacramental
expression. In the diptychs, the acts of the
martyrs, and the martyrologies, we read, <q>He has received
the palm of martyrdom</q>&mdash;he has been crowned with the
palm of the martyrs.</q> (McC.) Many of the martyrs of the
Dark Ages were undoubtedly of the Great Company.
</p>

<p>
7:10. <hi rend='sans'>And [cried] THEY CRY with a loud voice.</hi>&mdash;In
grand and happy chorus of exultant praise and thanksgiving
over their final deliverance.&mdash;Rev. 19:1-3.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Saying, Salvation.</hi>&mdash;Our glorious and unmerited boon of
life on so high a plane.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To our God.</hi>&mdash;Be ascribed to Him as the Author.&mdash;Psa. 3:8.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[Which sitteth] upon the Throne.</hi>&mdash;Jehovah.&mdash;Rev. 4:2;
5:13.
</p>

<pb n='139'/><anchor id='Pg139'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And unto the Lamb.</hi>&mdash;The Tower of the Flock, Christ as
the instrument of salvation.&mdash;Micah 4:8.
</p>

<p>
7:11. <hi rend='sans'>And all the angels.</hi>&mdash;The beautiful sons of the
morning who shouted for joy in the dawn of earth's creative
week 48,000 years ago.&mdash;Job 38:7; Lu. 2:9-14; Matt.
4:11; 28:2; F. 51.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Stood round about the Throne.</hi>&mdash;With eager joy welcoming
this new addition to the family of God.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And about the elders.</hi>&mdash;The prophecies, many of which
have pointed out this second and greater company. But
notice the exquisite nicety of the Word of God and the
Wisdom of our Father! Not <emph>all</emph> the elders do mention the
Great Company, and therefore the designation <q>four and
twenty,</q> in this instance, is omitted.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the four beasts.</hi>&mdash;Justice, Power, Love and Wisdom.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And fell before the Throne on their faces.</hi>&mdash;No wonder
such humble characters <q>always behold the face of the
Father.</q>&mdash;Matt. 18:10.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And worshipped God.</hi>&mdash;There is no self-seeking among
the angels. When an angel appeared to Manoah and his
wife, and Manoah sought to know his name, he left an
everlasting lesson in his reply, <q>Why askest thou thus
after my name, seeing it is secret?</q>&mdash;Judges 13:2-23.
</p>

<p>
7:12. <hi rend='sans'>Saying, Amen.</hi>&mdash;So be it! We are not at all
jealous. We are delighted to have these new helpers in
the Heavenly realm.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Blessing.</hi>&mdash;The praises and blessings of all who owe
their existence to His goodness.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And wisdom.</hi>&mdash;To continually and forever unfold some
new and wonderful features of goodness and grace towards
the work of His hands.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And thanksgiving.</hi>&mdash;From <q>every creature which is in
Heaven and on earth.</q>&mdash;Rev. 5:13.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And honor.</hi>&mdash;To the Name so long and so unjustly and
foully dishonored, by the eternal torment theory.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And power.</hi>&mdash;Restrained for thousands of years, but now
about to be exercised in man's behalf.&mdash;Psa. 76:10.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And might.</hi>&mdash;The ability to accomplish fully all His purposes.&mdash;Isa.
55:11.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Be unto our God for ever and ever. Amen.</hi>&mdash;Be ascribed
to Jehovah for eternity.&mdash;Rev. 5:13,14.
</p>

<p>
7:13. <hi rend='sans'>And one of the elders.</hi>&mdash;The prophecy of Isaiah
1:10-20.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Answered, saying unto me.</hi>&mdash;Under symbolism of Sodom
because of their identification with spiritual Sodom's work
and hopes.&mdash;Rev. 11:8.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>What are these which are arrayed in white robes.</hi>&mdash;Who
are these of whom it is said, <q>Your hands are full of blood.
<pb n='140'/><anchor id='Pg140'/>
Wash you, make you clean; put away the evil of your
doings before mine eyes,</q> etc.?&mdash;Isa. 1:15, 16; Rev. 7:9.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And whence came they.</hi>&mdash;Why are they figuratively represented
as stained with blood?
</p>

<p>
7:14. <hi rend='sans'>And I said unto him, [Sir,] MY LORD, thou knowest.</hi>&mdash;It
is doubtless contained in your prophecy.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And he said unto me.</hi>&mdash;In Isa. 34:5, 6, <q>My sword shall
be bathed in Heaven: behold, it shall come down upon
Idumea, and upon the people of My curse, to judgment.
The sword of the Lord is filled with blood, it is made fat
with fatness, and with the blood of lambs.</q>&mdash;D. 17.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>These are they which came out of great tribulation.</hi>&mdash;<q><q>The
tribulation, the great one</q>&mdash;the twofold article being
specially emphatic. See Rev. 3:10; 6:17; Matt. 24:21.</q>
(Cook.) <q>They are those,</q> he said, <q>who have just passed
through the great distress.</q> (Weym.) <q>The slaughter of
this day of vengeance is said to be of the <q>lambs and
goats.</q> (Isa. 34:6.) The lambs would represent the tribulation
saints.</q> (D. 17.) <q>The Great Company will pass
through a great tribulation, with a view to effecting in
them a proper penitence for sin and a proper appreciation
of the Divine standard of truth and righteousness. This
class, particularly large in the present day, will be delivered
over to the Adversary&mdash;to suffer in a Time of Trouble
such as was not since there was a nation&mdash;the great time
of trouble with which this Age shall end. Such of them
as fail to respond to those tribulations and to seek the
Lord will die the Second Death, but such as respond faithfully
will be counted as overcomers.</q> (Z. '07-232.)
</p>

<p>
<q>Many such are now being closely bound in with
the various bundles of tares for the burning; and not until
the fiery trouble of the latter end of the Harvest period
shall burn the binding cords of Babylon's bondage shall
these be able to make their escape&mdash;<q>saved so as by fire.</q>
They must see the utter wreck of Great Babylon and
receive some measure of her plagues.</q> (C. 364.) <q>Sad disappointments
attach to the experiences of this company:
it is because they <emph>fear</emph> the reproaches of Christ that they
shirk present privileges and opportunities for walking
with Him in white in the <q>sufferings of this present time:</q>
behold, they not only miss the present joy and rejoicing of
those who are faithful, but eventually they must come
through <emph>still greater</emph> sufferings, if they would attain even
to a lower place. Although loving the Lord and His
people, they are somewhat ashamed of them and hide, as
it were, their faces from them, in the presence of the
worldly: and behold the Master at His Coming for His
<q>Bride</q> cannot confess their names in the presence of the
<pb n='141'/><anchor id='Pg141'/>
Father and the holy angels.</q> (Z. '97-162.) <q>These will be
helped out of Babylon when she is falling, and will flee in
the winter-time, saying in the words of the Prophet, <q>The
Harvest is past, the Summer is ended [Winter has come],
and we are not saved.</q> (Jer. 8:20.)</q> (D. 578.) <q>These,
surely, we cannot expect to see shielded from the very
trouble which the Lord declares they need; and which in
special mercy He will inflict for their perfecting.</q>&mdash;Z. '96-191.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And have washed their robes.</hi>&mdash;Spotted and soiled by
contact with the world.&mdash;Z. '97-161.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And made them white in the blood of the Lamb.</hi>&mdash;<q>Not
that their sufferings will wash their robes, but that in their
sufferings they will learn to appreciate as never before
their relationship to the Lamb of God and to His atoning
merit, and by faith will be permitted to apply the same to
their own cleansing.</q>&mdash;Z. '07-233; 1 John 1:7.
</p>

<p>
7:15. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore.</hi>&mdash;Because, in the final test, they suffered
martyrdom and cleansed their robes rather than deny
the Lord.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Are they before the Throne of God.</hi>&mdash;<q>With the world in
the next Age, the Lord's power will be represented through
the Great Company class, under the Bride. They will be
a great police force, looking out for the whole people.
They will have enough to do; for God has guaranteed that
<q>nothing shall hurt or offend in all His holy Mountain</q>&mdash;Kingdom
(Isa. 11:9). That will mean a careful supervision.
Yes, indeed! How will they hinder wrong-doing?
If a person were about to speak blasphemy or slander, the
tongue might be instantly paralyzed. Very easy! A
policeman right on the spot!&mdash;not waiting until the offender
had done the mischief and then punishing him, but
fixing him so that he will not get the chance to do it, and
punishing him for trying to do so.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Question Meeting.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And serve Him day and night in His Temple.</hi>&mdash;<q>Although
they can never be the living Temple of which Christ is
the Head (Rev. 3:12; 11:1), we are told they shall be
<emph>servants</emph> in that Temple; and although they shall never
sit in the Throne, they are highly privileged to serve <q>before
the Throne.</q> Grand and glorious privileges will be
theirs.</q>&mdash;Z. '97-162; Rev. 22:3.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And He that sitteth on the Throne.</hi>&mdash;Jehovah.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[Shall dwell among] KNOWETH them.</hi>&mdash;To be known of
the Lord is to be the sure recipient of blessings. Not to
be known or recognized of Him is the greatest of all
calamities. God keeps a record of His friends (Mal. 3:16)
but no record of His enemies; and therein lies their ruin.
<q>I never <emph>knew</emph> you; depart from Me.</q>&mdash;Matt. 7:23.
</p>

<pb n='142'/><anchor id='Pg142'/>

<p>
7:16. <hi rend='sans'>They shall NOT hunger [no more].</hi>&mdash;Poor things,
how hungry they have been! How the light has shone in
their poor, hunted, starved faces, as they have listened to
Pastor Russell, by the tens of thousands; and yet, when
the lecture was over, they have wearily gone back to the
<q>husks,</q> from a sense of duty to the memory of some
man, dead for hundreds of years, who would, if alive today,
be a follower of <emph>the</emph> Reformer, Charles T. Russell, because
he followed Christ.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Neither thirst any more.</hi>&mdash;<q>The waters of Truth shall no
longer be brackish with error, being healed at the very
spring by a clearer understanding of the Word of God.</q>&mdash;B. 266.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Neither shall the sun light on them, nor any heat.</hi>&mdash;During
the Harvest time the Lord's people, illuminated
with the light of Present Truth, have been shining forth,
not with any brilliancy of their own, but with much of the
coming splendor of the <q>Sun of Righteousness.</q> Coming
in contact with them, it has been inevitable that the Great
Company class should frequently be singed, unable to
answer the Truth, and should feel considerable heat. Their
condition has been aptly described by the Prophet, <q>It
shall be a vexation only to understand the report.</q> (Isa.
28:19.) <q>As if a man did flee from a lion, and a bear met
him; or went into the house and leaned his hand on the
wall, and a serpent bit him.</q>&mdash;Amos 5:19.
</p>

<p>
7:17. <hi rend='sans'>For the Lamb.</hi>&mdash;Jesus Christ, their eternal Friend&mdash;<q>The
same yesterday, today, and forever.</q>&mdash;Heb. 13:8.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which is in the midst of the Throne.</hi>&mdash;Authority, rulership.&mdash;A. 92;
Rev. 5:6.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Shall feed them.</hi>&mdash;Be their shepherd. (John 10:1-28;
21:16.) They will not have immortality. Their lives will
always require to be sustained, as in the case of the angels.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And shall lead them unto [living] fountains of waters OF
LIFE.</hi>&mdash;They will not have within them the <q>well of water
springing up unto everlasting life,</q> as will the Bride class,
but may freely take of the <q>Water of life</q> which flows
forth from the united well-springs of the Fountain and its
144,000 associates.&mdash;John 4:14; Rev. 22:1, 17; Ezekiel
47:1-5.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes.</hi>&mdash;There
will be tears at first that will require wiping away,
when they see all they have missed. Nevertheless, <q>With
gladness and rejoicing shall they be brought into the
King's Palace.</q> (Psa. 45:15.) And it is a good place;
there we leave them, to bask in the sunlight of His presence
forevermore. We shall <emph>know</emph> them all, then, even as
we shall be known by them.&mdash;1 Cor. 13:12.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='143'/><anchor id='Pg143'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Revelation 8&mdash;Four Preliminary Reformations</head>

<p>
8:1. <hi rend='sans'>And when He.</hi>&mdash;The Lord Jesus, whose privilege it
is to open them all.&mdash;Rev. 6:1.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Had opened the seventh seal.</hi>&mdash;<q>The seal of the living
God.</q> (Rev. 7:2.) The opening of the seventh seal is
<emph>progressive</emph>. The opening and unfolding of the Truth goes
on as the saints are sealed. By the time the saints are all
sealed in their hearts and minds with the Present Truth,
the deepest features of the Truth itself will have been disclosed.
<q>The time will undoubtedly come in the near
future when the number of the Elect will be complete.
Then only such vacancies as might still occur by some
falling out would remain.</q> (Z. '14-68.) <q>God's people down
through this Gospel age have been privileged to know
something of the <q>Secret of the Lord</q>&mdash;the Divine Plan.
But not until the last seal is broken, does the scroll fly
wide open, permitting the <q>Mystery of God</q> to be fully disclosed;
as it is written: <q>In the days of the voice of the
seventh angel, when he shall begin to sound, the Mystery
of God should be finished, as He hath declared to His
servants the Prophets.</q> (Rev. 5:1; 10:7.)</q>&mdash;Z. '97-257.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>There was silence.</hi>&mdash;<q>Assemble yourselves, and let us
enter into the defenced cities, and let us be silent there:
for the Lord our God hath put us to silence.</q> (Jer. 8:14.)
<q>They (the clergy) somehow realize that neither reason
nor Scripture supports their false doctrines, and that the
wisest method is to keep silent, in the shadow of old superstitions
and under the protection of so-called Christian governments.</q>&mdash;C. 158.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>In heaven.</hi>&mdash;In the nominal ecclesiastical heavens.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>About the space of half an hour.</hi>&mdash;On the scale of a year
for a day this would mean but a week, and indicates that,
as soon as the full number to complete the Body of Christ
have been sealed with the Present Truth, persecution in a
public way, and on an unprecedented scale, may be expected
to begin almost immediately. (This verse should
properly be included in Chapter 7.)
</p>

<p>
8:2. <hi rend='sans'>And I saw.</hi>&mdash;As the next vision of the grand series.
Something never seen until the seventh seal is broken and
the Mystery of God finished.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The seven angels.</hi>&mdash;Instrumentalities suitable for the
work to be performed.
</p>

<pb n='144'/><anchor id='Pg144'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which stood before God.</hi>&mdash;Featuring the <hi rend='italic'>Reformation</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And to them were given seven trumpets.</hi>&mdash;Bugles with
which to blow bugle-blasts of liberty from the oppressions
of the papacy, leading up to and including the final blast
of <q>Liberty throughout all the land unto all the inhabitants
thereof.</q>&mdash;Lev. 25:10.
</p>

<p>
8:3. <hi rend='sans'>And another angel.</hi>&mdash;Not the <q>voice of the Lord,</q>
mentioned in the preceding chapter, but the corporate
body&mdash;the <hi rend='smallcaps'>Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society</hi>, which
Pastor Russell formed to finish his work. This verse shows
that, though Pastor Russell has passed beyond the veil,
he is still managing every feature of the Harvest work.
<q><hi rend='smallcaps'>The Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society</hi> is the
greatest corporation in the world, because from the time
of its organization until now the Lord has used it as His
channel through which to make known the Glad Tidings.</q>-Z. '17-22;
Rev. 14:18; 19:17.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Came and stood.</hi>&mdash;Waited before the Lord, after the Pastor's
death, ready to do the Master's will.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>At the altar.</hi>&mdash;The Brazen Altar, the place of sacrifice.
(Ex. 38:1-7; Lev. 16:12, 13.) The fire for the sacrifice at
the Golden Altar was obtained here and then carried to
the Golden Altar where the incense was crumbled in it.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Having a golden censer.</hi>&mdash;Censers, or fire-pans, were of
two forms, with handles and without. In this case the kind
with the handle, used only on the Day of Atonement, is the
one referred to. The incense was burnt while the high
priest held the censer in his hand. Thus, in this prophecy,
the great antitypical High Priest identifies Himself with
the work of the Society, and places in its care&mdash;holds in
His hand&mdash;the fire-pans, the things that lead us to the place
where we sacrifice ourselves. Thus seen, the censer represents
teachings, understandings of the Word; for it is our
understanding of the Word which leads us to offer up all
we have in the Lord's service.&mdash;Num. 16:6, 7.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And there was given unto him much incense.</hi>&mdash;The
heart's best endeavors of the faithful fellow-members of
the Body.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That he should offer it.</hi>&mdash;To Jehovah, through the Son.&mdash;Rev.
5:8.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>With the prayers of all saints.</hi>&mdash;The Society is the only
entity in the world answering to this description. It alone
has offered on its behalf the prayers of all the saints, in
harmony with the clause of the Vow which reads, <q>Daily
will I remember at the Throne of heavenly grace the general
interests of the Harvest work&mdash;the dear co-laborers at
the Brooklyn Tabernacle and Bethel, and everywhere.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Upon the golden altar [which was] before the Throne.</hi>&mdash;The
<pb n='145'/><anchor id='Pg145'/>
offerings take place <q>before the Throne,</q> on this side
the veil.&mdash;Rev. 1:4; 5:6; Ex. 30:1-10.
</p>

<p>
8:4. <hi rend='sans'>And the smoke.</hi>&mdash;The fragrant, sweet perfume.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the incense.</hi>&mdash;Life's dearest ties, sacrificed in the
Master's cause.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which came with the prayers of the saints.</hi>&mdash;In harmony
with the Vow of faithfulness.&mdash;Psa. 141:2; Luke 1:10; Acts
10:4.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Ascended up before God out of the angel's hand.</hi>&mdash;<q>An
odor of a sweet smell, a sacrifice acceptable, wellpleasing
to God.</q>&mdash;Phil. 4:18.
</p>

<p>
8:5. <hi rend='sans'>And the angel.</hi>&mdash;<hi rend='smallcaps'>The Watch Tower Society</hi> through
its proper representatives.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Took the censer.</hi>&mdash;The Seventh Volume of <hi rend='smallcaps'>Studies in the
Scriptures</hi>, Divinely provided.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And filled it with fire of the altar.</hi>&mdash;Coals from the altar
signify burning truths; and such the Lord's prophecies always
are, when rightly understood.&mdash;Isa. 6:5-8. This is a
plain intimation of God's purpose to use the <hi rend='smallcaps'>Society</hi> in
further unfoldings of His Truth as it becomes due. <q>We
believe that the Lord will not scatter, but will <q>turn His
hand [power] upon the little ones,</q> in this dark hour
of trial (Zech. 13:7).</q>&mdash;Z. '17-30.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And cast it.</hi>&mdash;Greek, <q>Deliberately hurled it.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Into the earth.</hi>&mdash;Among order-loving people.&mdash;Ezek. 10:2;
Luke 12:49.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And there were [voices and] thunderings.</hi>&mdash;Seven Volumes
of <q><hi rend='smallcaps'>Scripture Studies</hi>,</q> this one being the last of the
series. (Rev. 10:3, 4.) Thunders are symbolical of controversy,
and this volume may cause some. Particularly
is it to be expected that the clergy will thunder against
whatever Truth it contains. Thunder is caused by the
flashing of lightning through the heavens, opening them
up, as it were. Immediately after the flash they come
together with an angry roar. Thunder, of itself, never
does anybody any harm.&mdash;Rev. 16:18.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And voices.</hi>&mdash;<q>These voices have been circulated here
and there throughout the whole civilized world, not by
worldly agents, not through book-sellers, but by those who
have themselves been blessed by the light, and who desire
to render a service to the Lord and to the Truth, and to
lay down their lives for the brethren by taking to them
the glorious and encouraging message now due to the
Lord's people.</q> (Z. '02-118.) Voices also symbolize discussion,
contention.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And lightnings.</hi>&mdash;See Rev. 4:5; 11:19; 16:18.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And an earthquake.</hi>&mdash;<q>The term earthquake is used to
symbolically represent revolution&mdash;it is in this sense of
<pb n='146'/><anchor id='Pg146'/>
the word that it is used throughout the Book of Revelation.
What we are to look for then will be a great revolution,
the great symbolic earthquake, the great shaking of
the present institutions which will overthrow everything
that is not of the Lord's establishment and approval.
Perhaps the symbolical earthquake will be accompanied by
a literal one.</q>&mdash;B. S. M.
</p>

<p>
8:6 <hi rend='sans'>And the seven angels which had the seven trumpets.</hi>&mdash;<q>We,
in common with almost all expositors, recognize
that the seven trumpets of Revelation are symbolical
and not literal.</q>&mdash;Z. '02-116; Josh. 6:4.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Prepared themselves to sound.</hi>&mdash;<q>Christian people in
general understand that five of these trumpets have already
<q>sounded</q> and are in the past&mdash;we would say six.
It is admitted that those that have already <q>sounded</q> have
not been literal blasts of a bugle on the air. But literal
things are so much more easily received by the natural
man that many advanced Christians, Bible students and
ministers, are really expecting some day to hear what is
sometimes denominated <q>Gabriel's horn,</q> shrill enough and
loud enough to awaken the dead.</q> (Z. '02-116.) As thoughtful
Christians we should expect that, as this period is that
in which the great sects have risen, its history should pay
particular attention to them, and thus we find. The Reformation
particularly affected <q>three parts</q> of the papal
dominion, Germany, England and France.&mdash;Rev. 8:7-10.
</p>

<p>
8:7. <hi rend='sans'>And the first [angel] sounded.</hi>&mdash;The movement
began, which later developed into the Lutheran General
Synod, Lutheran United Synod South, Lutheran General
Council, Lutheran Synodical Conference, United Norwegian
Lutheran Synod, Ohio Independent Lutheran Synod,
Buffalo Lutheran Synod, Hauge's Lutheran Synod, Eleisen's
Lutheran Synod, Norwegian Lutheran Synod, Danish in
America Lutheran Synod, Icelandic Lutheran Synod, Immanuel
Lutheran Synod, Suomai Finnish Lutheran Synod,
Finnish National Synod, Finnish Apostolic Synod, Norwegian
Free Lutheran Synod, Danish United Lutheran Synod,
Church of the Lutheran Brethren and Independent Lutheran
Congregations.&mdash;1 Cor. 3:3.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And there followed hail.</hi>&mdash;Sharp, cutting, hard truth, contained
in Luther's 95 theses nailed on the church door at
Wittenberg.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And fire.</hi>&mdash;Destructive judgments upon the papacy. Luther
sized up the Papal system of <q>Heads, I win; and tails, you
lose</q> in a few words when he said, <q>The Romanists have
with great dexterity built themselves about with three
walls, which have hitherto protected them against reform.
In the first place, when the temporal power has pressed
<pb n='147'/><anchor id='Pg147'/>
them hard, they have affirmed and maintained that the
temporal power has no jurisdiction over them&mdash;that on
the contrary, the spiritual is above the temporal. Secondly,
when it is proposed to admonish them from the Holy
Scriptures they said, <q>It beseems no one but the pope to
interpret the Scriptures,</q> and thirdly, when they were
threatened with a council, they invented the idea that no
one but the pope can call a council.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Mingled with blood.</hi>&mdash;Blood is a symbol of death-dealing
doctrine, and this teaches that Luther did not get entirely
free from error. The following illustrates this point:
<q rend='pre'>There gradually developed a group of radicals who were
convinced that Luther had not the courage of his convictions.
They proposed to abolish the idolatry of the
Mass and all other outward signs of what they deemed
the old superstitions. Luther's colleague at Wittenberg,
Carlstadt, began denouncing the monastic life, the celibacy
of the clergy, the veneration of images; and before the
end of 1521 we find the first characteristic outward symptoms
of Protestantism. In January 1522, Carlstadt induced
the authorities of Wittenberg to publish the first evangelical
church ordinance. The service of the Mass was
modified, and the laity were to receive the elements in
both kinds. Reminders of the old religious usages were
to be done away with, and the fast-days were to be no
longer observed. These measures led Luther to return
to Wittenberg in March, 1522, where he preached a series
of sermons attacking the impatience of the radical party.
In 1525 the conservative party, which had from the first
feared that Luther's teaching would result in sedition,
received a new and terrible proof, as it seemed to them,
of the noxious influence of the evangelical preachers.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>The peasant movements which had caused so much
anxiety at the diet of Augsburg in 1518, culminated in the
Peasant Revolt in which the common man, both in country
and town, rose in the name of God's justice to avenge
long-standing wrongs and establish his rights. Luther
was by no means directly responsible for the civil war
which followed, but he had certainly contributed to stir
up the ancient discontent. He had asserted that, owing
to the habit of foreclosing small mortgages, <q>Any one with
a hundred gulden could gobble up a peasant a year.</q> The
German feudal lords he pronounced hangmen, who knew
only how to swindle the poor man. Yet in spite of this
harsh talk about princes, Luther relied upon them to
forward the reforms in which he was interested. The
peasants demanded that the gospel should be taught them
as a guide in life, and that each community should be
<pb n='148'/><anchor id='Pg148'/>
permitted to choose its pastor and depose him if he conducted
himself improperly. More radical demands came
from the working classes in the towns. The articles of
Heilbronn demanded that the property of the Church
should be confiscated and used for the community; clergy
and nobility alike were to be deprived of all their privileges,
so that they could no longer oppress the poor man.
The more violent leaders renewed the old cry that the
parsons must be slain. Hundreds of castles and monasteries
were destroyed by the frantic peasantry, and some
of the nobles were murdered with shocking cruelty.
Luther, who believed that the peasants were trying to
cloak their dreadful sins with excuses from the gospel,
exhorted the government to put down the insurrection.
<q>Have no pity on the poor folk; stab, smite, throttle, who
can.</q> The German rulers took Luther's advice with terrible
literalness, and avenged themselves upon the peasants,
whose lot was apparently worse afterwards than
before.</q>&mdash;Brit.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And they were cast upon the earth AND THE THIRD
PART OF THE EARTH WAS BURNED UP.</hi>&mdash;Luther's
teaching had the effect of transforming the order-loving
German people into anarchists.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the third part.</hi>&mdash;The German part.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of trees.</hi>&mdash;Trees are symbols of saints. <q>St. Paul gives
us the picture of a tree, the roots of which push down
deep into the knowledge of the Divine Plan, while the tree
of character grows higher and higher, developing and maturing
the rich fruits of the Holy Spirit of God; for instruction
is a form of <emph>construction</emph>.</q>&mdash;Z. '14-312; Isa. 61:3.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Was burnt up.</hi>&mdash;Hindered from standing alone, and absorbed
into the Lutheran system.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And all green grass.</hi>&mdash;Natural men of independent
thought.&mdash;Isa. 40:6, 7.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Was burnt up.</hi>&mdash;Similarly absorbed into the Lutheran system,
a welcome substitute for papacy's intolerable yoke.
</p>

<p>
8:8. <hi rend='sans'>And the second [angel] sounded.</hi>&mdash;The Anglican
church movement began.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And as it were a great mountain.</hi>&mdash;England in the time
of Henry VIII. Mountains symbolize kingdoms.&mdash;Dan. 2:35;
Jer. 51:25.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Burning with fire.</hi>&mdash;Aflame with another great movement
destructive to the papacy.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Was cast into the sea.</hi>&mdash;Was suddenly thrown into a condition
of isolation from the papacy&mdash;no longer placed under
religious restraint to it.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the third part of the sea.</hi>&mdash;The English part.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Became blood.</hi>&mdash;The much-married Henry VIII., founder
<pb n='149'/><anchor id='Pg149'/>
of the Anglican Church, and the second great sect-founder,
has some slight blemishes on his escutcheon also. <q rend='pre'>Henry
VIII. himself stoutly maintained the headship of the pope,
and as is well known, after examining the arguments of
Luther, published his defence of the Seven Sacraments in
1521, which won for him from the pope the glorious title of
<q>Defender of the faith.</q> By 1527 the king had become hopeless
of having a male heir by Catherine. He was tired of
her, and in love with the black-eyed Anne Boleyn, who refused
to be his mistress. The king's agents secured the
opinion of a number of prominent universities that his
marriage was void, and an assembly of notables, which he
summoned in June 1530, warned the pope of the dangers
involved in leaving the royal succession in uncertainty.
Henry's next move was to bring a charge against the
clergy, accusing them of having violated the ancient laws
of praemunire in submitting to the authority of papal legates
(although he himself had ratified the appointment of
Wolsey as legate <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>a latere</foreign>). The clergy of the province of
Canterbury were fined 100,000 pounds and compelled to declare
the king their singular protector and only supreme
lord, and, as far as that is permitted by the law of Christ,
the supreme head of the Church and of the clergy.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>The following year, 1532, an obedient parliament presented
a petition to the king (which had been most carefully
elaborated by the king's own advisers) containing
twelve charges against the bishops. For the remedy of
these abuses parliament turned to the king <q>in whom and
by whom the only and sole redress, reformation and remedy
herein absolutely rests and remains.</q> [These charges were
answered by the clergy, but the answer did not suit the
king so on the 15th of May, 1532.] The king's most humble
subjects, daily orators and bedesmen of the clergy of England,
in view of his goodness and fervent Christian zeal
and his learning far exceeding that of all other kings that
they have read of, agree never to assemble in convocation
except at the king's summons, and to enact and promulgate
no constitution or ordinances except they receive the
royal assent and authority. [Then Henry divorced Catherine
and married Anne Boleyn and the English Reformation
was officially launched.] The king had now clarified
the ancient laws of the realm to his satisfaction, and
could proceed to seize such portions of the Church's possessions
as he deemed superfluous for the maintenance of
religion. [On the 30th of July, 1540, three Lutheran clergymen
were burned and three Roman Catholics beheaded, the
latter for denying the king's spiritual supremacy. The
king's ardent desires that diversities of minds and opinions
<pb n='150'/><anchor id='Pg150'/>
should be done away with and unity be <q>charitably established</q>
was further promoted by publishing in 1543 A Necessary
Doctrine and Erudition for any Christian Man, set
forth by the King's Majesty of England, in which the tenets
of mediaeval theology, except for denial of the supremacy
of the bishop of Rome and the unmistakable assertion of
the supremacy of the king, were once more restated. The
First Prayer Book of Edward VI was issued in 1549 and
was followed in 1552 by the Second Prayer Book and] <q>The
foundations of the Anglican church were laid.</q></q>&mdash;Brit.
</p>

<p>
8:9. <hi rend='sans'>And the third part.</hi>&mdash;The English part.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the creatures.</hi>&mdash;The clergy <q>apostolically</q> of the
Church of Rome, but actually doing business under Henry
VIII. Be it noted that they were not counted worthy of
being called <q>men.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which were in the sea.</hi>&mdash;No longer under religious restraint
to the papacy.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And had life.</hi>&mdash;The apostolic succession, from the line of
popes, etc., described in Rev. 2:13 comments.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Died.</hi>&mdash;Were excommunicated by the pope, lost their
<q>apostolic (?) succession.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the third part.</hi>&mdash;The English part.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the ships.</hi>&mdash;Independent bodies of Christian worshippers
called Lollards, followers of Wycliffe.&mdash;Mark 4:36;
6:48-51; John 6:21.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Were destroyed.</hi>&mdash;Compelled to acknowledge Henry VIII
as head of the Church or lose their lives. <q>Thus, when the
English Reformation of the 16th century commenced, it
derived a new impulse from the earlier Lollard movement
which it was destined to absorb into itself.</q>&mdash;McC.
</p>

<p>
8:10. <hi rend='sans'>And the third angel sounded.</hi>&mdash;The Calvinistic
movement began, which later developed into the Northern
Presbyterian Church, Cumberland Presbyterian Church,
Welsh Calvinistic Church, United Presbyterian Church,
Southern Presbyterian Church, Associate Presbyterian
Church, Associate Reformed Southern Presbyterian Church,
Reformed Synod Presbyterian Church, Reformed General
Synod Presbyterian Church, Reformed Covenanted Presbyterian
Church, Reformed Presbyterian Church in the United
States and Canada, Dutch Reformed Church, German Reformed
Church, Christian Reformed Church, Hungarian
Reformed Church, and Congregational Church.&mdash;1 Cor. 3:3.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And there fell a great star from heaven.</hi>&mdash;John Calvin
tore a large-sized hole in the Catholic firmament when he
started the manufacture of a firmament of his own.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Burning as it were a lamp.</hi>&mdash;The precipitation of the Calvinistic
movement in France and Switzerland was as sudden
as the Anglican movement had been in England or the
<pb n='151'/><anchor id='Pg151'/>
Lutheran movement in Germany. In 1533 Francis I, King
of France, <q>anxious to conciliate both German Protestants
and anti-papal England, invited some of the reformers to
preach in the Louvre,</q> as an offset to a fierce attack that
had but lately been made upon them, caused by the mutilation
of a statue of the Virgin. On the festival of All Saints,
Cop, the rector of the University of Paris, was to deliver
the address, but Jean Cauvin (Calvin) persuaded the rector
to read an address which he had written. It was a defence
of the new evangelical views and so aroused the Sorbonne
that Calvin and Cop were both obliged to flee from Paris.
Calvin went to Basle, Switzerland, and in 1536 wrote and
published the first great textbook of Protestant theology,
<hi rend='italic'>Institutes of the Christian Religion</hi>. He did his best, but
his best was not very good.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And it fell upon the third part.</hi>&mdash;The French part.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the rivers.</hi>&mdash;Channels of religious instruction.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And upon the fountains of waters.</hi>&mdash;The Word of God.
Although Calvin misunderstood and misapplied them, yet
he constantly appealed to the Scriptures as the support
for his theories.
</p>

<p>
8:11. <hi rend='sans'>And the name of the star.</hi>&mdash;Calvin is entitled to
the honor of having at one time been a papal star. <q>He
was from the first educated for the Church, and before he
was twelve years old was presented to a benefice in the
Cathedral of Noyon. Six years after this he was appointed
to a cure of souls at Montville, and thus, although not yet
twenty, and not even in the minor orders, he was enjoying
the titles and revenues of a cure.</q>&mdash;McC.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Is called Wormwood.</hi>&mdash;What an ideal name for the doctrine
which has caused more bitterness against God than
any other doctrine ever taught, and for the man who roasted
Servetus at the stake.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the third part of the waters.</hi>&mdash;Many portions of the
Scriptures, misunderstood, misconstrued and misapplied.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Became.</hi>&mdash;Were made to appear in the eyes of many.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Wormwood.</hi>&mdash;Bitter as gall. <q>None now would justify
Calvin's course in sentencing Servetus to be burned.
Others burned at the stake usually had the fuel piled at
their feet. The flames were inhaled with the smoke, and
the victim was speedily unconscious to suffering. For
Servetus Satanic ingenuity arranged the burning fagots
at a distance. He literally roasted alive, in horrible torture,
nearly five hours&mdash;in the name of God, of Jesus, of
Righteousness, Truth, Justice, Love, Christianity and
Civilization.</q> (P. D.)&mdash;Jer. 9:15; 23:15; 9-40; Deut. 29:18.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And many men died of the waters.</hi>&mdash;Lost their manhood,
reason and common sense by becoming Calvinists.
</p>

<pb n='152'/><anchor id='Pg152'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Because they were made bitter.</hi>&mdash;Because the Scriptures
were made to appear to teach what actually they do
not. <q>It seems remarkable that only now are we realizing
that a man so deficient in the spirit of his Master as
to murder his brother, should not be an accepted teacher
of the Word of God and its spirit. Only now are Bible
students realizing that Brother Calvin was not the inventor
of the doctrine of election, but merely of the doctrine
that all the non-elect would suffer everlastingly. Now
we see that the terms, <q>the elect,</q> <q>the very elect,</q> are
Bible terms! and that those who make their calling and
election sure, will be glorified in the First Resurrection.
Now we see that the Elect will be associated with Jesus
in His Kingdom, which will bless the non-elect&mdash;<q>all the
families of the Earth.</q></q>&mdash;P. D.
</p>

<p>
8:12. <hi rend='sans'>And the fourth angel sounded.</hi>&mdash;The Baptist sectarian
movement began, resulting in Baptist Churches
North, Baptist Churches South, Baptist Churches Colored,
Seventh-Day Baptists, General Baptists, Separate Baptists,
United Baptists, Baptist Church of Christ, Primitive Baptist
Church, Primitive Colored Baptist Church, Old Two
Seed in the Spirit Predestinarian Baptist Church, Church
of God and Saints of Christ, Mennonites, Six Principle
Baptist Church, Free Baptist Church, Freewill Baptist
Church&mdash;not forgetting the Selfwill Baptist Church, which
also has a large membership, but is not listed.&mdash;1 Cor. 3:3.
</p>

<p>
From an examination of history <q>It does not appear that
the Baptists were formed into any stability (as a sect)
until the time of Menno, about the year 1536. About 1644
they began to make a considerable figure in England, and
spread themselves into several separate congregations.
They separated from the Independents about the year
1638, and set up for themselves under the pastoral care
of Mr. Jesse; and, having renounced their former baptism,
they sent over one of their number to be immersed by
one of the Dutch Anabaptists of Amsterdam, that he might
be qualified to baptize his friends in England after the
same manner.</q> (Buck.) <q rend='pre'>Menno Simons, born in 1492 at
Witmarsum in Friesland, at the age of 24 entered the
priesthood. Doubts about transubstantiation made him
uneasy; some of Luther's tracts fell in his way, and he
was comforted by Luther's dictum that salvation does not
depend on human dogmata. Hence he began to study the
New Testament. The question as to the right age for
baptism came up; he found this an open matter in the
early church. Then the execution, in March, 1531, at
Leeuwarden, of the tailor Sicke Freerks, who had been
rebaptized in the previous December at Emden, introduced
<pb n='153'/><anchor id='Pg153'/>
further questions. Menno was not satisfied with the
inconsistent answers which he got from Luther, Bucer
and Bullinger; he resolved to rely on Scripture alone,
and from this time describes his preaching as evangelical,
not sacramental. Anabaptism of the Munster type repelled
him. A brother of Menno joined the insurgent followers
of Matthyzoon and was killed at Bolsward, April
1535. Blaming the leaders by whom these poor people
had been misled, Menno blamed himself for not having
shown them a straight course. Accordingly on the 12th
of January 1536 he left the Roman communion.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Among the so-called Anabaptists were four parties,
the favorers of the Munster faction, the Batenburgers, extremists,
the Melchiorites and the Obbenites. For a time
Menno remained aloof from both Melchior Hofman and
Obbe Philipsz. Before the year was out, yielding to the
prayer of six or eight persons who had freed themselves
from the Munster spell, he agreed to become their minister
and was set apart January 1537 to the eldership at
Groningen, with imposition of hands by Obbe Philipsz.
Menno repudiated the formation of a sect; those who had
experienced the <q>new birth</q> were to him the true Christian
church. His Christology was in the main orthodox
though he rejected terms such as Trinity which he could
not find in Scripture. Of the introduction of Anabaptist
views into England we have no certain knowledge. Fox
relates that <q>the registers of London make mention of certain
Dutchmen counted for Anabaptists, of whom ten were
put to death in sundry places in the realm, anno 1535;
other ten repented and were saved</q>. In 1536 King Henry
VIII issued a proclamation concerning faith agreed upon
by Convocation, in which the clergy are told to instruct
the people that they ought to repute and take <q>The Anabaptists'
opinions for detestable heresies and to be utterly
condemned.</q> Thomas Fuller tells us from Stow's Chronicles
that in the year 1538 four Anabaptists, three men
and one woman, all Dutch, bare faggots at Paul's Cross,
and three days after a man and woman of their sect
were burnt in Smithfield. The early English Baptists,
while they utterly rejected the baptism of infants, were as
yet unpledged to immersion and rarely practiced it.</q>&mdash;Brit.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the third part of the sun was smitten.</hi>&mdash;Though not
apparently so stated in any confession of faith, it is a
prevalent view among Baptists that the Old Testament
has been entirely fulfilled. Believing thus they lose the
force of a large part of the Gospel Message, typified by
the sun.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the third part of the moon.</hi>&mdash;Similarly, they do not
<pb n='154'/><anchor id='Pg154'/>
see the force of the teachings of the Law Dispensation, as
in the Tabernacle arrangements, etc., in their application
to the Church.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the third part of the stars.</hi>&mdash;The teachings of the
true light-bearers, the Apostles, cannot be fully appreciated
except in connection with the prophecies of the Old
Testament.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>So as the third part of them was darkened.</hi>&mdash;If pressed
to estimate the relative worth to us as New Creatures
of the writings of the Old and New Testaments, we would
admit that the writings of the New Testament are worth
perhaps twice as much to us as those of the Old Testament
because they contain the message addressed to the
New Creation, but <emph>we</emph> want all <emph>three</emph> thirds of the Word.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the day.</hi>&mdash;The Scripture teaching of the coming
Millennial Day.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Shone not for a third part of it.</hi>&mdash;At least a third of the
light we get on the subject of the Lord's Millennial Reign
is from the Old Testament.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the night likewise.</hi>&mdash;The same is true of the world's
dark night of sin and death, and the darkest feature
of that night&mdash;the Time of Trouble such as was not since
there was a nation. The Old Testament has much of
light and instruction on this subject.
</p>

<p>
8:13. <hi rend='sans'>And I beheld, and heard an [angel] EAGLE.</hi>&mdash;One
of Pastor Russell's humble followers (Matt. 24:28) apprehending
correctly the significance of the three woes.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Flying through the midst of heaven.</hi>&mdash;Beginning with
the papal heavens and then in their order of development,
the Lutheran heavens, Anglican heavens, Calvinistic
heavens and Baptist heavens (and others shortly.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Saying with a loud voice.</hi>&mdash;With considerable plainness
of speech.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Woe, woe, woe, to the inhabiters of the earth.</hi>&mdash;Great
distress and perplexity of mind to all supporters of Satan's
Empire.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>By reason of the other voices.</hi>&mdash;Later movements in the
ecclesiastical heavens described in Chapters 9 and 10.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the three angels, which are yet to sound.</hi>&mdash;The four
great denominations&mdash;Lutheran, Anglican, Presbyterian
and Baptist&mdash;were formed in swift succession within
twenty years from the time Luther nailed the theses on
the Wittenberg door. But the work of forming new movements
away from papal bondage did not stop there.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>Ye curious minds, who roam abroad,</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And trace creation's wonders o'er,</l>
<l>Confess the footsteps of your God,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'><q rend='post'>And bow before Him, and adore.</q></l>
</lg>
</quote>

</div>

<pb n='155'/><anchor id='Pg155'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Revelation 9&mdash;Two Ineffective Reformation Woes</head>

<p>
9:1. <hi rend='sans'>And the fifth angel sounded.</hi>&mdash;The Wesleyan
movement began, leading up to the Methodist Episcopal
Church, United American Methodist Episcopal Church,
African Methodist Episcopal Church, African United Methodist
Protestant Church, African Methodist Episcopal
Zion Church, Methodist Protestant Church, Wesleyan
Methodist Church, Methodist Episcopal Church South,
Congregational Methodist Church, New Congregational
Methodist Church, Zion Union Apostolic Church, Colored
Methodist Episcopal Church, Free Methodist Church, Reformed
Methodist United Episcopal Church, and Independent
Methodist Churches.&mdash;1 Cor. 3:3.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And I saw a star.</hi>&mdash;John Wesley became a star in the
Anglican heavens in 1728, at which time he was ordained
a priest by Bishop Potter.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Fall from heaven unto the earth.</hi>&mdash;For many years Wesley
had no thought of forming a sect; and yet, unconsciously,
he began to do so from the time he was ordained.
He was then in Oxford University, where <q>the
completeness of his self-devotion to the service of God,
combined with his rare moral courage and superior
strength of character, caused him to be recognized as the
leader of a group of under-graduates which was nicknamed
the <q>Holy Club</q> by the ungodly of the University,
who derided its members for their rigid rules and charitable
practices by calling them <q>Methodists.</q></q> (McC.) <q>He
fully accepted the recognized teaching of the Church of
England, and publicly appealed to the Prayer-Book and
the Thirty-nine articles in justification of the doctrines he
preached. Methodism began in a revival of personal religion,
and it professed to have but one aim, to spread
Scriptural holiness over the land. Its doctrines were in
no sense new.</q> (Brit.) The work in the Western World,
particularly in the United States, grew to vast proportions.
<q>The preachers in the South determined upon
administration of the sacraments, and a committee was
chosen who ordained themselves and others. The Northern
preachers opposed this step and for several years the
Connexion was on the verge of disruption. Wesley perceived
that the Society would disintegrate unless effective
<pb n='156'/><anchor id='Pg156'/>
measures were speedily taken, and, aided by two
presbyters of the Church of England, (one of whom was
James Creighton) early in 1784 he ordained Thomas Coke,
a presbyter of that Church, as Superintendent.</q>&mdash;Brit.
</p>

<p>
His brother Charles heartily disapproved of this and
wrote the following (which does not, however, appear
with his other hymns in the Methodist hymnal):
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>So easily are bishops made</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>By man or woman's whim;</l>
<l>Wesley his hands on Coke hath laid,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'><q rend='post'>But who laid hands on <emph>him</emph>?</q></l>
</lg>
</quote>

<p>
In 1787 the American Conference changed Mr. Coke's
title to <q>Bishop.</q> Mr. Coke tried to introduce this title
into the English Conference of which he was president,
but the English Brethren could not accept it, despite his
great earnestness in the cause. It must have been a
strange sight to see a bright man like Wesley engaging
those two presbyters of the Church of England to help
him ordain somebody to a higher office than any of <emph>them</emph>
had ever held. But <emph>the plan worked</emph>. All Methodists believe
that Bishop Coke, the first Bishop of the Methodist
Church received some <q>apostolic succession</q> from
the original line described in comments on Rev. 2:13.
These brethren have grieved that Pastor Russell did not
get his ordination from the same source.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And to him was given the key of the [bottomless] pit
OF THE ABYSS.</hi>&mdash;Wesley was given the key to <emph>nothing</emph>
and to <emph>nowhere</emph>.
</p>

<p>
9:2. <hi rend='sans'>[And he opened the bottomless pit].</hi>&mdash;Wesley
opened nothing. He did interpret Rom. 8:21 as meaning
that the lower animals would go to Heaven, but that was
an error. He was honest enough, however, to object to
using the word Trinity because he did not find it in the
Bible. <q>Christian Advocates</q> please note.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And there arose a smoke.</hi>&mdash;Confusion&mdash;a blinding haze.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[Out of] OVER the pit.</hi>&mdash;In the <q>air,</q> the ecclesiastical
heavens.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>As the smoke of a great furnace.</hi>&mdash;Methodism was no
ordinary smudge.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the sun.</hi>&mdash;The true Gospel.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the air.</hi>&mdash;The Anglican Church.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Were darkened by reason of the smoke of the pit.</hi>&mdash;Methodism
damaged the Anglican communion as much as
it did the Truth.
</p>

<p>
9:3. <hi rend='sans'>And there came out of the smoke locusts.</hi>&mdash;An immense
number of followers.&mdash;Judges 7:12.
</p>

<pb n='157'/><anchor id='Pg157'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Upon the earth.</hi>&mdash;Among order-loving people.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And unto them was given power.</hi>&mdash;To attend an old-time
Methodist meeting and witness the <q>getting the
power</q> was to see the sight of a life-time.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>As the scorpions of the earth have powers.</hi>&mdash;<q>A well-known
injurious insect of <emph>hot</emph> climates, which is shaped
very much like a lobster. They are carnivorous in their
habits, and move along in a threatening attitude with the
tail elevated. The sting, which is situated at the extremity
of the tail, has at its base a gland that secretes
a poisonous fluid, which is discharged into the wound by
two minute orifices at its extremity. The scorpion makes
a painful wound in men and beasts which produces fatal
results unless speedy remedies be provided such as
scarifying the wound or sucking out the poison.</q>&mdash;McC.
</p>

<p>
9:4. <hi rend='sans'>And it was commanded them that they should not
hurt the grass of the earth.</hi>&mdash;Men of independent thought.&mdash;Rev.
8:7.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[Neither any green thing.] Neither any tree.</hi>&mdash;Saint.&mdash;Rev.
8:7.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>But [only] those men.</hi>&mdash;The unconverted.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which have not the seal of God in their foreheads.</hi>&mdash;Methodists
understand that to be converted from being a
sinner means to have the seal of God in one's forehead.
All the energies of that church are devoted to gathering in
goats to the sheepfold.
</p>

<p>
9:5. <hi rend='sans'>And to them it was given that they should not kill
them.</hi>&mdash;No such sane and merciful sentence as <q>The
wages of sin is death</q> has any place in Methodist theology.
Wesley was born at a time when the original
meaning of the word <q>Hell</q> had become hidden, and was
saturated with the later teachings that it signifies a place
of torment. He threw his whole heart into the work of
spreading this error throughout the earth.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>But that they should be tormented five months.</hi>&mdash;In symbolic
time, 150 years. (Rev. 2:21). Wesley became the
first Methodist in 1728. (Rev. 9:1). When the Methodist
denomination, with all the others, was cast off from favor
in 1878 (Rev. 3:14) its power to torment men by preaching
what Presbyterians describe as <q>Conscious misery,
eternal in duration</q> came to an end legally, and to a
large extent actually.&mdash;Rev. 9:10.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And their torment.</hi>&mdash;The torment of those tormented by
the tormenting doctrine of torment.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Was as the torment of a scorpion, when he striketh a
man.</hi>&mdash;See Rev. 9:10.
</p>

<p>
9:6. <hi rend='sans'>And in those days.</hi>&mdash;Throughout the 150 years of
widely prevalent <q>Methodist hell-fire</q>.
</p>

<pb n='158'/><anchor id='Pg158'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Shall men seek death.</hi>&mdash;Would be glad to know that
<q>The wages of sin <emph>is</emph> death.</q>&mdash;Rom. 6:23.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And shall not find it.</hi>&mdash;Because all the texts which
plainly teach that <q>All the wicked will God destroy,</q> were
perverted to mean <q>All the wicked will God immortalize
in hell.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And shall desire to die.</hi>&mdash;Real men would prefer to die
and stay dead rather than forever companion and worship
the greatest devil of the Universe.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And death shall flee from them.</hi>&mdash;They were told that
men only seem to die, although touch, hearing, sight and
smell all bear eloquent testimony to the contrary.&mdash;Rom.
6:23; Ezek. 18:4; Gen. 3:19; Psa. 115:17; Ecc. 9:5; Psa.
37:10, 20; Ecc. 3:19-21; 1 Cor. 15:13, 18; Dan. 12:2.
</p>

<p>
9:7. <hi rend='sans'>And the [shapes] LIKENESSES of the locusts were
like unto horses prepared unto battle.</hi>&mdash;The battle-cry of
the old-time Methodist was <q>All at it, and always at it</q>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And on their heads were as it were crowns like gold.</hi>&mdash;Those
born of the spirit, changed from human conditions
and made like the Lord, have received the very highest
blessing, the <q>Crown of life</q>, the Divine nature. Gold is
a symbol of Divinity. To receive a crown of gold is to be
born of the spirit. All old-time Methodists felt certain
that they were <q>born of the spirit</q> when converted, no begetting
or quickening being necessary. But here is
pointed out that these good people had <q>as-it-were</q>
crowns instead of real ones.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And their faces were as the faces of men.</hi>&mdash;They were
not <q>Born of the spirit</q> as they supposed.
</p>

<p>
9:8. <hi rend='sans'>And they had hair as the hair of women.</hi>&mdash;<q>If a
woman have long hair it is a glory to her: for her hair is
given her for a covering.</q> (1 Cor. 11:15.) The Church's
glory is her wedding robe, the robe of Christ's righteousness.
It is to the credit of old-time Methodists that they
trusted for salvation in the precious blood of Christ.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And their teeth were as the teeth of lions.</hi>&mdash;Lions are
able to chew and swallow almost anything. When the
conference at Baltimore in 1787 turned John Wesley's
Superintendent into a Bishop, the Methodist people swallowed
it all; and to this day most of them really believe
that their clergy are a Divinely appointed institution, despite
the fraud perpetrated.&mdash;Joel. 1:4-6.
</p>

<p>
9:9. <hi rend='sans'>And they had breastplates.</hi>&mdash;<q>Breastplates of
righteousness.</q>&mdash;Eph. 6:14.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>As it were breastplates of iron.</hi>&mdash;An iron breastplate
would be a good one but an <q>as-it-were</q> breastplate
would need examination. It was not uncommon for old-time
Methodists to deceive themselves into thinking they
<pb n='159'/><anchor id='Pg159'/>
had not sinned for years. Those who had such breastplates
wore the <q>As-it-were</q> variety.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the sound of their wings.</hi>&mdash;When engaged in <q>getting
the power</q>.&mdash;Rev. 9:3.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Was as the sound of chariots.</hi>&mdash;The noisiest vehicles
known in the Revelator's day.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of many horses running to battle.</hi>&mdash;The old-time Methodist
hell-fire revival was in days gone by the noisiest place
on earth, excepting the camp-meeting. Those good old
days have long since gone.
</p>

<p>
9:10. <hi rend='sans'>And they had tails.</hi>&mdash;Followers&mdash;class-leaders.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Like unto scorpions.</hi>&mdash;The old-time class-leader was an
invaluable adjunct of the Methodist Church. Upon him
devolved the duty of requiring each probationer to attend
the class-meeting and report his spiritual progress weekly,
whether he had made any or not. After each report it
was the class-leader's duty to squirt in a little more of
the poisonous doctrines from the two orifices referred to
in comments on Rev. 9:3. From the <q>heaven</q> orifice came
the doctrine <q>If you are good you will go to Heaven when
you die</q>&mdash;and from the <q>hell</q> orifice came the message
<q>If you are bad you will go to hell when you die.</q> It was
all very simple. Everybody was simple in those days.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And [there were] stings.</hi>&mdash;Revivals in which the attendants
were stung, doctrinally and financially.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>AND in their tails [and] WAS their power [was] to hurt
men five months.</hi>&mdash;One hundred and fifty years, from
Wesley's ordination in 1728 to the casting off of Methodism
in 1878.&mdash;Rev. 9:5.
</p>

<p>
9:11. <hi rend='sans'>[And] they [had a] HAVE THEIR king [over
them].</hi>&mdash;The same king as exercises general rulership over
all the ecclesiastical affairs of this present evil world.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[Which is] the angel of the [bottomless pit] ABYSS.</hi>&mdash;<q>The
prince of the power of the air.</q>&mdash;Eph. 2:2.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Whose name in the Hebrew tongue is Abaddon.</hi>&mdash;And he
is <q>a bad one,</q> sure enough.&mdash;2 Cor. 4:4.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>But in the Greek tongue hath his name Apollyon.</hi>&mdash;That
is, Destroyer. But in plain English his name is Satan, the
Devil. As a means for preventing people from seeing the
Truth, Methodism has been as efficient as any of the five
systems previously described, or any that follow. All have
been sadly misled and deceived by our great and wily
Adversary; <q>Taken captive by him at his will.</q>&mdash;2 Tim.
2:26.
</p>

<p>
9:12. <hi rend='sans'>One woe is past.</hi>&mdash;Methodism was the first woe
of the epoch leading up to and associated with the Time
of the End. It was a serious blow to the pretensions of the
Papacy, but its days of usefulness have long since passed.
</p>

<pb n='160'/><anchor id='Pg160'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And, behold, there come two woes more [hereafter].</hi>&mdash;One
outlined in the remainder of this chapter and one in
Chapter 10. It was the discovery of Methodism as the
first woe that led to an identification of the four movements
of the Reformation proper which preceded it.&mdash;Rev.
8:7-13.
</p>

<p>
9:13. <hi rend='sans'>[And] AFTER THESE THINGS the sixth angel
sounded.</hi>&mdash;The Evangelical-Alliance-Spiritism movement began
in 1846-1848 culminating in the Federal Council of the
Churches of Christ in America. The following great denominations
which comprise 90% of the Protestant Church
membership are represented in this council: Baptist
(North), Free Baptist, Christian, Congregational, Disciples
of Christ, Evangelical Association, Evangelical Synod,
Friends, Lutheran General Synod, Methodist Episcopal,
Methodist Episcopal (South), German Evangelical Synod,
Colored Methodist Episcopal, Methodist Protestant, African
Methodist Episcopal, African Methodist Episcopal Zion,
Mennonite, Moravian, Presbyterian, Presbyterian (South),
Welsh Presbyterian, Reformed Presbyterian, United Presbyterian,
Protestant Episcopal, Reformed Church in America,
Reformed Church in the U. S. A., Reformed Episcopal,
Seventh-Day Baptist, United Brethren in Christ, United
Evangelical, National Baptist Convention.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url="images/img165.png" rend="width: 60%">
    <head>Methodism</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url="images/img166.png" rend="width: 60%">
    <head>Babylon Perplexes The World</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
Although these sects are the only ones now members
of the Federal Council, yet, in hatred of the Truth, and
darkness in regard to God's Plan, the following are also
entitled to membership: Evangelical Adventists, Advent
Christians, Seventh-Day Adventists, Church of God, Life
and Advent Union, Church of God in Jesus Christ, fifteen
kinds of Baptists named in comments on Rev. 8:12, four
kinds of Dunkard brethren, the Conservative, Old Order,
Progressive and Seventh-Day German varieties, four kinds
of Plymouth Brethren, three kinds of River Brethren, the
Brethren in Christ, Old Order or Yorker and United Zion's
Children, Catholic Apostolic, New Apostolic, Christadelphians,
Dowie's Christian Catholic, Christian Union,
Church of Christ Scientist, Winnebrenarian Churches of
God, Colored Churches of the Living God, Christian Workers
for Friendship, Apostolic, Church of Christ in God,
Churches of the New Jerusalem, General Convention,
General Church, Church Transcendent, Communistic
Societies, Shakers, Amana, Churches of Christ, Apostolic
Faith Movement, Peniel Missions, Metropolitan Church
Association, Hepziba Faith Association, Missionary Christian
Association, Heavenly Recruit Church, Apostolic
Christian Church, Christian Congregation, Colored Voluntary
Missionary Society, Hicksite Friends, Wilburite
<pb n='161'/><anchor id='Pg161'/>
Friends, Primitive Friends, Friends of the Temple, German
Evangelical Protestant, Latter-Day Saints, Reorganized
Latter-Day Saints, twenty-one kinds of Lutherans shown
in comments on Rev. 8:7, Swedish Evangelical Missionary
Covenant. Swedish Evangelical Free Mission, Norwegian
Evangelical Free Church, twelve kinds of Mennonites,
Bruederhoef, Amish, Old Amish, Conservative Amish, Reformed,
General Conference, Church of God in Christ, Old
Wisler, Bundes Conference, Defenceless, Brethren in
Christ, sixteen kinds of Methodists shown in comments
on Rev. 9:1, Union Moravian, Pentecostal Church of the
Nazarene, Other Pentecostal Associations, twelve kinds of
Presbyterians shown in comments on Rev. 8:10, 11, Christian
Reformed, Hungarian Reformed, Reformed Catholic,
Salvation Army, Schwenkfelders, Social Brethren, Society
for Ethical Culture, Spiritualists, Theosophical Society,
Old Constitution Brethren, Unitarians, Universalists, etc.
</p>

<p>
Their <q>faiths</q> are quite as varied as their names, but
without exception they deny the central truth of the Scriptures
(1 John 4:2, 3) that when Jesus Christ came to
earth He came as a man only, devoid of immortality or
Divinity, that when He died He was as dead as though He
never had lived, and that by that death He bought for
Adam and his race the Restitution of all things foretold
by <q>the mouth of all the holy Prophets since the world
began.</q> (Rev. 4:10.) The common ground upon which
they stand is this, their denial of the Ransom, their affirmation
of Spiritism, in some form, and their adherence
to the principle of Federation. All of these things are
condemned in the Scriptures but the Scriptures will never
be allowed to stand in the way of those who live by
shearing the wool from the sheep. (2 Tim. 4:3, 4; Deut.
18:10, 11; Isa. 8:9-22.) The latter passage is full of the
deepest significance at this time.
</p>

<p>
<q>Christian Heralds</q> that refused to publish advertisements
of Pastor Russell's books now give space to advertisements
of godless, Christless, Buddhist, demoniacal books,
glorifying the New Thought system of mind worship, the
boot-strap system of religion by which men, by cultivation
of the will, lift themselves into money, piety and immortality,
and by making assertions to and demands of the
alleged <q>sub-conscious mind</q> invite and receive the assistance
of evil spirits, and finally come under their control.
Modern <q>Christianity</q> is Buddhism.
</p>

<p>
<q>The Rev. Dr. Day, Chancellor of the Syracuse University,
recently, in an address to the Y. M. C. A., is reported
by the public press to have said: <q>Wouldn't you rather
live in America than in Heaven? I would. I'd like to
<pb n='162'/><anchor id='Pg162'/>
go to Heaven when I can't be here. In fact, I think I'd
be rather discontented in Heaven till I got adjusted. You
can get anything you want here. You can live under
forty odd governments, meet all the nations of the world,
eat all the fruits of the world and get any kind of climate
that you choose. So America is the beat place to live;
but I think when a man can't stay here any longer he
ought to steer for Heaven,</q></q> (Z. '08-196.) Having concluded
to stay here as long as possible, <q>Christians</q> are now
flocking by thousands to the purchase of works which will
show them how to use spiritism to take advantage of their
fellow men. The religious and other periodicals are now
filled with advertisements of these books. We quote a
few extracts to show their Satanic character:
</p>

<p>
<q>It is necessary to control others, to discover their
plans. This you may be able to do if you have developed
your inner faculties. We show you how to so develop your
intuitional nature that you are able to detect the feelings
of others; to penetrate their secret motives; and to discover
what they try to conceal. The Golden Rule must
be followed in controlling others. <q>Do unto others as you
would that they should do unto you.</q> There comes more
and more the power of seeing the future, so that more
and more true becomes the old adage that coming events
cast their shadows before. Health in time takes the place
of disease; for all disease and its consequent suffering is
merely the result of the violation of law, whether consciously
or unconsciously. There comes a spiritual power
which, as it is sent out, is adequate for the healing of
others the same as in the days of old.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Many omniscient men and women will soon walk the
earth. Omniscience and Freedom are the goal of all, and
in this Great Age of Light many Egos are approaching the
blessed omniscience state.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Suddenly it seemed that the top of my head had been
lifted, and I became aware of an immense increase of
personal consciousness. I became conscious, I say&mdash;I
know what I am writing&mdash;of the vast sky above, and the
mighty deeps below, and the wide sweep of present human
life, and the long forward and backward stretch of human
history. It seemed that I could sense the All. Since that
day all is well. Life is deeper, richer, stronger&mdash;assured,
fearless, and saturated with perennial vital interests.</q>
(What really happened to this man was that he became
obsessed by demons.)&mdash;Rev. 7:3.
</p>

<p>
<q>The strength of these delusions lies in the grave errors
mixed with truths long held by Christian people, because
of the <q>falling away</q> from the pure faith of the Apostolic
<pb n='163'/><anchor id='Pg163'/>
Church, foretold in the Scriptures. Among these errors
none is designed to open the heart and mind to these
delusive and destructive theories of today more effectually
than the general belief of the first lie&mdash;<q>Ye shall <emph>not</emph> surely
die.</q> (Gen. 3:4.) The general acceptance of it results from a
failure to understand the Bible doctrine concerning <emph>life</emph>
and <emph>immortality</emph>, which were brought to light by our Lord
Jesus through His Gospel of salvation from sin by His
Ransom-sacrifice. The advocates of these false doctrines
are surprisingly alert and active everywhere, especially
in the United States, where thought is most active and
where liberty often means license. Hundreds of thousands
have embraced these errors as new and advanced light.
The extent of their success is not fully apparent to many;
for their success lies in a <emph>still hunt</emph> for prey. Their advocates
are to be found in almost every congregation of every
denomination, and especially among the more cultured;
and the <q>angel of light</q> feature is seldom neglected. The
nominal churches are already permeated, <emph>leavened</emph> with
these false doctrines. The Scriptural prophecy that <q>a
thousand shall fall at thy [the true Church's] side, and
ten thousand at thy right hand</q> (Psalm 91:3-14), is now
fulfilled before our eyes.</q>&mdash;Z. '15-343.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And I heard a voice.</hi>&mdash;William Miller, from A. D. 1829
to 1844.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>From [the four horns of] the golden altar which is
before God.</hi>&mdash;<q>The Golden Altar in the <q>Holy</q> would seem
to represent the <q>little flock,</q> the consecrated Church in
the present sacrificing condition.</q>&mdash;T. 120.
</p>

<p>
9:14. <hi rend='sans'>Saying.</hi>&mdash;By pointing to the near fulfillment of
the 2300 days.&mdash;Dan. 8:14.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To the sixth angel which had the trumpet.</hi>&mdash;The Evangelical
Alliance-Spiritism movement. The Alliance proper
was organized Sept. 2nd, 1846, at the end of the 2800 years.
The spiritism feature began January, 1848. The two have
been growing towards each other ever since until now
they are substantially one and the same thing.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Loose the four angels.</hi>&mdash;Four errors in the nine fundamental
principles of the Evangelical Alliance. We give
the erroneous clauses by number: (3) <q>The unity of the
Godhead, and the trinity of persons therein.</q> See Rev.
6:4; 5:7. (5) <q>The incarnation of the Son of God.</q>
(8) <q>The immortality of the soul.</q> (9) <q>The Divine institution
of the Christian ministry</q> (i. e., the clergy).
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which are bound.</hi>&mdash;Hindered from gaining fullest expression.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>In the great river Euphrates.</hi>&mdash;The world of mankind.&mdash;B. 209,
D. 24.
</p>

<pb n='164'/><anchor id='Pg164'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the four angels.</hi>&mdash;The four great errors of trinity,
incarnation, immortality and lordship over God's heritage.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Were loosed.</hi>&mdash;Given greater liberties than ever before.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which were prepared.</hi>&mdash;Each sect for itself, and in its
own time.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For [an] THE hour.</hi>&mdash;The hour of judgment, 1918.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[And a day] and [a] month, and [a] year.</hi>&mdash;Thirteen
symbolic months, the 390 years of Protestantism's siege
of the Papacy.&mdash;Ezek. 4:5.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For to slay.</hi>&mdash;To make nominal Christians of, to take
away the manhood of.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The third part of men.</hi>&mdash;According to the World Almanac
for 1917, the total number of Christians in the world
at the beginning of the twentieth century was 571,400,000,
of whom one third, 177,800,000, were Protestants.
</p>

<p>
9:16. <hi rend='sans'>And the number of the army of the horsemen.</hi>&mdash;In
round numbers, at the time of identification.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Were two hundred thousand thousand.</hi>&mdash;Approximately
two hundred millions.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[And] I heard the number of them.</hi>&mdash;Heard, heeded, or
noted, the count as given in the World Almanac, as correct.
This is a tribute to a journal notorious for its
ignoble, unjust and dishonest attacks on Pastor Russell.
<q>Out of thine own mouth will I judge thee.</q> And have
you noticed, on the same principle, that nearly all the
encyclopedic references herein are to the great standard
Protestant works to be found in every capable minister's
library? How is it that <emph>they</emph> do not know these things?
</p>

<p>
9:17. <hi rend='sans'>And thus I saw the horses in the vision.</hi>&mdash;Horses
are symbols of teachings. It is the doctrines a man has
been taught that carry him along to do things. <q>As a
man thinketh, so is he.</q> The man and his beliefs are
inseparable.&mdash;Joel 2:4. (The four kinds of horses of
Zech. 6:1-8 seem to refer to four companies of saved ones.
Red, the Ancient Worthies; black, the Little Flock; white,
the Great Company; bay, the world of mankind.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And them that sat [on] UPON them.</hi>&mdash;The total Protestant
church membership.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Having breastplates of fire.</hi>&mdash;Keeping the doctrine of
hell-fire well to the front in their teachings.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And of jacinth.</hi>&mdash;<q>The hyacinthus of the Romans is invariably
blue and lustrous. This description suggests the
blue flame which issues between the fire and the brimstone,
represented as <q>smoke</q> in verse 18.</q>&mdash;Cook.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And brimstone.</hi>&mdash;Yes, indeed, plenty of brimstone went
along with the hell-fire.&mdash;Rev. 14:10.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the heads.</hi>&mdash;<q>The ancient and honorable, he is the
head; and the prophet that teaches lies, he is the tail.</q>&mdash;Isa.
<pb n='165'/><anchor id='Pg165'/>
9:15. <q>In a genus of serpents or ophidian reptiles
called <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>amphisboena</foreign> the tail and head are equally obtuse,
and the scales on the head so similar to those on the back
as to render it difficult to distinguish one extremity from
the other. Hence these reptiles have been supposed to have
the power of creeping backwards or forwards with equal
facility.</q> (Cook.)&mdash;Isa. 29:10-14; John 4:22.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Were as the heads of lions.</hi>&mdash;Able to swallow the most
ridiculous and impossible theories.&mdash;1 Chron. 12:8.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And out of their mouths issued fire.</hi>&mdash;Sermons full of
hell-fire.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And smoke.</hi>&mdash;See Rev. 9:18.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And brimstone.</hi>&mdash;O yes, surely; plenty of brimstone, to
go with the hell-fire.
</p>

<p>
9:18. <hi rend='sans'>By these [three] PLAGUES was the third part of
men.</hi>&mdash;The Protestant third of Christendom.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Killed.</hi>&mdash;Deprived of reason, manhood and dignity.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>By the fire.</hi>&mdash;The sermons full of hell-fire.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And [by] the smoke.</hi>&mdash;Smoke is a symbol of confusion.
The following is an extract from an article on the brain
written by a well-known physician and alienist:
</p>

<p>
<q>To illustrate how effectually such conceptions served to
block all progress in the science of life we may quote one
instance from a ponderous volume in my library with the
date 1618 on <hi rend='italic'>Physiology and Anatomy</hi> by Hilkiah Crooke,
Physician and Professor on Anatomy and Chirurgery to His
Majesty, James I. Speaking of the origin and growth of
hair, he says: <q>The immediate matter of the haires is a
sooty, thicke, and earthly vapour, which in the time of the
third concoction (distillation) is elevated by the strength of
the action of naturall heate, and passeth through the pores
of the skin, which heate exiceateth or drieth this moysture
of these sootie and thicke vapours, for the vapour being
thicke, in his passage leaveth some part of it selfe, to
wit, the grossest, in the very outlet, where it is impacted
by a succeeding vapour arising where the former did, is
protruded and thrust forward, so that they are wrought
together in one body. The straightness of the passages
of the skin were through the matter of the haires is
anoyded, formeth them into a small roundness, even as
a wyre receyeth that proportion whereof the whole is,
where through it is drawne.</q> One great office of the hairs
of the head, therefore, Crooke perceived to be to lead off
<q>the vapors which otherwise would choke and make
smoaky the braine,</q> though how hopelessly choked the
brains of all bald heads hence would be he does not
mention.</q> A study of the foregoing leads to the conclusion
that the various churches must have been founded by
<pb n='166'/><anchor id='Pg166'/>
bald-headed men, and the smoke being unable to find its
way out through their scalps naturally had to come out
of their mouths!
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And [by] the brimstone.</hi>&mdash;Yes, indeed; plenty of brimstone.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which issued out of their mouths.</hi>&mdash;Especially when an
evangelist firm is in town looking for shekels.
</p>

<p>
9:19. <hi rend='sans'>For [their power] THE POWER OF THE
HORSES is in their mouth.</hi>&mdash;Assuredly, assuredly; it certainly
is not in the Scriptures.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And in their tails.</hi>&mdash;Followers, <q>Workers,</q> class-leaders.&mdash;Isa.
9:15.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For their tails were like unto serpents.</hi>&mdash;Bright enough
to know better.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And had heads.</hi>&mdash;Wills of their own&mdash;unlike the <q>Beheaded</q>
saints (Rev. 20:4.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And with them they do hurt.</hi>&mdash;Damage the cause of
Truth.
</p>

<p>
9:20. <hi rend='sans'>And the rest of the men.</hi>&mdash;Those ordinary <q>good
fellows</q> (and bad ones too), men of the world who had too
much sense to swallow what is taught by any of the sects.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which were not killed by these THEIR plagues.</hi>&mdash;Who
remained <q>unconverted</q> to the mass of errors masquerading
in the name of religion.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Yet repented not of the works of their hands.</hi>&mdash;Failed
to turn their money, brains and service over to the nominal
church, but continued on in their own way.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That they should not worship devils.</hi>&mdash;Joining, if they
choose, the Masons, Odd Fellows and other secret organisations
teaching a debased form of religion.&mdash;Lev. 17:7; Deut.
32:17; 1 Cor. 10:20.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And idols of gold, and silver and [brass] COPPER.</hi>&mdash;Having
their affection set upon currency in hand and in the
bank.&mdash;Psa. 115:1-4; Dan. 5:22, 23.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And stone, and of wood.</hi>&mdash;Giving their attention to earthly
affairs, improvements in real estate, etc.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which neither can see, nor hear, nor walk.</hi>&mdash;But are
more or less permanent, tangible and fixed.
</p>

<p>
9:21. <hi rend='sans'>Neither repented they of their murders.</hi>&mdash;Teaching
hell-fire keeps nobody from being a murderer or a
slanderer.&mdash;Rev. 21:8.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Nor their sorceries.</hi>&mdash;Use of drugs, Greek. Teaching
hell-fire keeps nobody from being a drug fiend or pseudo-philosopher.&mdash;Rev.
21:8.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Nor of their [fornication] WICKEDNESS.</hi>&mdash;Teaching
hell-fire keeps nobody from being a wicked man.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Nor of their thefts.</hi>&mdash;Teaching hell-fire keeps nobody from
engaging in <q>high finance.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='167'/><anchor id='Pg167'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Revelation 10&mdash;The True Reformation Woe</head>

<p>
10:1. <hi rend='sans'>And I saw another angel.</hi>&mdash;<q>The Messenger of the
Covenant,</q> the Lord Jesus.&mdash;Mal. 3:1.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Come down from Heaven.</hi>&mdash;At the time of the Second
Advent, Oct. 1874.&mdash;Rev. 3:20.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Clothed with a cloud.</hi>&mdash;<q><q>He cometh with clouds;</q> and
while the clouds of trouble are heavy and dark, when the
mountains (kingdoms of this world) are trembling and
falling, and the earth (organized society) is being shaken,
disintegrated, melted, some will begin to realize what we
now proclaim as already at hand&mdash;that Jehovah's Anointed
is taking to Himself His great power and beginning His
work of laying justice to the line and righteousness to
the plummet. (Isa. 28:17.)</q>&mdash;B. 138.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And [a rainbow was] THE HAIR upon His head, and
His face was as it were the sun, and His feet as pillars
of fire.</hi>&mdash;See Rev. 1:14-16; 7:2; 18:1.
</p>

<p>
10:2. <hi rend='sans'>And [He had] HAVING in His hand.</hi>&mdash;In His
power, given to Him by the Father.&mdash;Rev. 5:7, 5.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>A little book open.</hi>&mdash;The Present Truth message.&mdash;C. 89.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And He set His right foot.</hi>&mdash;Exerted the strongest power
of restraint.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Upon the sea.</hi>&mdash;The masses not under religious control,
who, without the Lord's control of the situation, would
have long since swallowed up the present order of things.&mdash;Rev.
7:1-3; Luke 21:25; Psa. 46:2, 3.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And His left foot on the earth.</hi>&mdash;<q>Throughout the Scriptures,
earth, when used symbolically, represents society;
seas, the restless, turbulent, dissatisfied masses of the
world.</q>&mdash;A. 318.
</p>

<p>
10:3. <hi rend='sans'>And cried with a loud voice.</hi>&mdash;Pastor Russell was
the voice used.&mdash;Rev. 7:2.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>As when a lion roareth.</hi>&mdash;Symbolical of Justice.&mdash;Rev.
4:7; Amos 3:8.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And when.</hi>&mdash;In 1881 A. D.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>He had cried.</hi>&mdash;With the first great cry, <q><hi rend='italic'>Food for Thinking
Christians</hi>,</q> 1,400,000 copies given away, <emph>free</emph>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Seven thunders.</hi>&mdash;Seven volumes of <q>STUDIES IN THE
SCRIPTURES.</q>&mdash;Rev. 8:5.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Uttered their voices.</hi>&mdash;Were foreseen as necessary to
the complete statement of the Plan, and the fulfillment of
this and other Scriptures.
</p>

<pb n='168'/><anchor id='Pg168'/>

<p>
10:4. <hi rend='sans'>And [when] WHATSOEVER the seven thunders
had uttered [their voices], I.</hi>&mdash;Pastor Russell as a representative
of the John class.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Was about to write.</hi>&mdash;Intended to put on paper at once.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And I heard a voice from Heaven.</hi>&mdash;The guidance of the
Heavenly Father, directing and overruling, knowing that
the results would be better if the interest of His little
ones were sustained by expectancy throughout the whole
time of Harvest, rather than to give them all the light
at once.&mdash;John 16:12.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Saying [unto me], Seal up [those] WHAT things [which]
SOEVER the seven thunders uttered.</hi>&mdash;Do not immediately
disclose their full contents.&mdash;Dan. 8:26; 12:4, 9.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And write them not.</hi>&mdash;Observe how the Lord retarded
the publications: Vol. I was published in 1886. <q>In sending
forth this first volume of the MILLENNIAL DAWN,
it is but proper that we apologize to the many friends who
have waited for it so patiently since promised.</q> (A. 3.)
Volume II was published in 1889, and III in 1891. <q>Some
have urged greater haste in the writing and publishing of
the several volumes of this series, and, to a large extent,
I have shared the same feelings of impatience; but my
observations of the Lord's dealings and leadings and unfoldings
of His Plan are gradually convincing me that He
has not shared our impatience. Indeed, I can clearly trace
His hand in some of the hindrances encountered and can
realize by the delay I have been enabled to grasp the subjects
more thoroughly, and to present them more fully,
than if the work had been hastened more. Not only has
this delay worked for my good and yours, but in another
way also. It has afforded time for a more thorough digestion
of the truths of each volume, and thereby has given
to the faithful student the very necessary preparation for
that which was to follow. And not only so, but it has
also given opportunity for practicing the lessons learned,
and for exercising the talents of each in spreading the
advancing light before others of God's saints.</q> (C. 12.)
Volume IV was published in 1897, V in 1899, VI in 1904
and VII in 1917. This makes a total lapse of 36
years from the publication of <hi rend='italic'>FOOD FOR THINKING
CHRISTIANS</hi> to the last volume of the <hi rend='italic'>SCRIPTURE
STUDIES</hi>. Meantime the Harvest work grew to a movement
of vast proportions; and Volume VII was delayed.
</p>

<p>
10:5. <hi rend='sans'>And the angel which I saw.</hi>&mdash;The Lord Jesus, since
1874.&mdash;Rev. 10:1.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Stand upon the sea and upon the earth.</hi>&mdash;In control of
the masses not under religious restraint as well as order-loving
society.
</p>

<pb n='169'/><anchor id='Pg169'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Lifted up His RIGHT hand to Heaven.</hi>&mdash;The seventh
angel was in that hand when He did so.&mdash;Rev. 1:16, 20.
</p>

<p>
10:6. <hi rend='sans'>And sware by Him that liveth for ever and ever.</hi>&mdash;By
Jehovah, His Father and our Father, His God and our
God.&mdash;John 20:17.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Who created Heaven, and the things that therein are.</hi>&mdash;<q>The
heavens declare the glory of God.</q>&mdash;Psa. 19:1-6;
Neh. 9:6; Rev. 4:11; 14:7.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the earth, and the things that therein are, [and the
sea, and the things which are therein].</hi>&mdash;<q>When the morning
stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for
joy.</q>&mdash;Job 38, 39, 40 and 41 chapters.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That there [should be] IS time no longer.</hi>&mdash;<q>There shall
be no further delay.</q>&mdash;Weym.
</p>

<p>
10:7. <hi rend='sans'>But in the days of the voice of the seventh
angel.</hi>&mdash;Pastor Russell was the seventh angel.&mdash;Rev. 3:14.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>When he shall begin to sound.</hi>&mdash;In the autumn of 1881,
at which time <hi rend='italic'>FOOD FOR THINKING CHRISTIANS</hi> was
circulated, and the General Call ceased.&mdash;Rev. 11:15.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The mystery of God [should be] WAS finished.</hi>&mdash;<q>The
great unfolding of the Divine mystery we are expressly
told was reserved until the close of the Gospel Age.</q>
(Z. '97-255.) <q>The Plan ceases to be a mystery, because
there is no further object in perpetuating its secrecy. The
greatness of the mystery, so long kept secret, and the
wonderful grace bestowed on those called to fellowship
in this mystery (Eph. 3:9), suggest to us that the work
to follow its completion must be an immense work, worthy
of such great preparations. What may we not expect in
blessings upon the world, when the veil of mystery is
withdrawn and the showers of blessing descend! It is
this for which the whole creation groans and travails in
pain together until now, waiting for the completion of
this mystery, for the manifestation of the Sons of God,
the promised <q>Seed</q> in whom they shall all be blessed.&mdash;Rom.
8:19, 21, 22.</q> (A. 87.) <q>While the door stands open,
it indicates that any believer who is anxious to enter and
ready to comply with the conditions may yet do so, even
though the general <q>call</q> or invitation to enter is no longer
sent out. The opportunity to labor and sacrifice has not yet
closed though the general call ceased in 1881.</q>&mdash;C. 213.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>As He hath declared to His servants.</hi>&mdash;The Harvest
Workers.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>AND the Prophets.</hi>&mdash;Daniel (12:4-12) and Habakkuk
(2:1-3).&mdash;Rev. 1:1.
</p>

<p>
10:8. <hi rend='sans'>And the Voice which I heard from Heaven.</hi>&mdash;The
Heavenly Father's voice.&mdash;Rev. 10:4.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Spake unto me again.</hi>&mdash;By His Holy Spirit.
</p>

<pb n='170'/><anchor id='Pg170'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And said.</hi>&mdash;Through the Bible, His Word, His Voice.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Go take the little book.</hi>&mdash;<q>Study to show thyself approved
unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed.</q>&mdash;2
Tim. 2:15.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which is open in the hand of the angel.</hi>&mdash;The Lord Jesus.
Rev. 10:1, 5.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which standeth upon the sea and upon the earth.</hi>&mdash;See
Rev. 10:2, 5.
</p>

<p>
10:9. <hi rend='sans'>And I went unto the angel.</hi>&mdash;<q>In coming out of
bondage to human traditions, creeds, systems and errors,
we are coming directly to our Lord, to be taught and fed
by Him, to be strengthened and perfected to do His pleasure,
and to stand, and not fall with Babylon.</q>&mdash;C. 167.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And said unto Him.</hi>&mdash;By my act in obeying His command.&mdash;Rev.
18:4.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Give me the little book.</hi>&mdash;Take me into Your confidence;
give me Your Holy Spirit; show me, as promised, the
<q>things to come.</q>&mdash;John 16:13.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And He said unto me, Take it, and eat it up.</hi>&mdash;<q>It is
absolutely useless for us to pray Lord, Lord, give us the
Spirit, if we neglect the Word of Truth which that Spirit
has supplied for out filling.</q>&mdash;E. <hi rend='italic'>245</hi>, 225; Ezek. 2:8.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And it shall make thy belly bitter.</hi>&mdash;Lead to self-sacrifice,
with its attendant sufferings, but create an appetite for
more. <q>The after effects are always more or less blending
of the bitterness of persecution with the sweetness.</q>&mdash;C. 89;
Ezek. 2:10; 3:14; Dan. 8:27.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>But it shall be in thy mouth sweet as honey.</hi>&mdash;<q>O the
blessedness.</q>&mdash;Dan. 12:12; Psa. 19:10; 119:103.
</p>

<p>
10:10. <hi rend='sans'>And I took the little book out of the angel's hand
and ate it up.</hi>&mdash;<q>Thy words were found and I did eat them;
and Thy Word was unto me the joy and rejoicing of mine
heart.</q>&mdash;Jer. 15:16.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And it was in my mouth sweet as honey.</hi>&mdash;<q>So I opened
my mouth, and He caused me to eat that roll. And it was
in my mouth as honey for sweetness.</q>&mdash;Ezek. 3:2, 3.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And as soon as I had eaten it, my belly was [bitter]
FILLED.</hi>&mdash;<q>It satisfies my longings as nothing else could
do.</q>
</p>

<p>
10:11. <hi rend='sans'>And [He said] THEY SAY unto me.</hi>&mdash;The Scriptures
do the saying.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Thou must prophesy again.</hi>&mdash;Continue to proclaim the
Message of Truth Divine.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Before many peoples, and nations, and tongues, and
kings.</hi>&mdash;Until it has been fully testified to all.&mdash;1 Tim. 2:6.
The concluding word of this Scripture suggests that the
last witness of the church in the flesh is, like their Lord's
as alleged malefactors, before earth's rulers.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='171'/><anchor id='Pg171'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Revelation 11&mdash;The Time Of The End</head>

<p>
11:1. <hi rend='sans'>And there was given me.</hi>&mdash;The John class in the
Time of the End.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>A reed like unto a rod.</hi>&mdash;The Lord's Word is both a
rod to lean upon, (Isa. 11:4) and a reed with which to
measure. (Jer. 1:11-12). The word here tendered <q>rod</q>
is rendered <q>staff</q> in Matt. 10:10; Heb. 11:21.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[And the angel stood, saying], HE SAITH.</hi>&mdash;It is the
<q>reed</q> or <q>rod</q> itself, the Divine Word, that does the saying.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Rise.</hi>&mdash;<q>At the exact <q>time appointed,</q> 1799, the end of
the 1260 days, the power of the Man of Sin, the great oppressor
of the Church, was broken, and his dominion
taken away. With one stroke of His mighty hand, God
there struck off Zion's fetters, and bade the oppressed
go free. And forth came, and are coming, the <q>Sanctuary</q>
class, the <q>holy people,</q> weak, and halt, and lame, and
almost naked, and blind, from the dungeon darkness and
filth and misery of papal bondage. Poor souls! they had
been trying to serve God faithfully in the very midst of
the lurid flames of persecution, clinging to the cross of
Christ when almost every other truth had been swept
away, and courageously endeavoring to emancipate God's
<q>Two Witnesses</q> (the Old and New Testaments), which
had so long been bound, and which had prophesied only
under the sackcloth of dead languages.</q>&mdash;C. 122.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And measure the Temple of God.</hi>&mdash;<q>That symbolic Temple
which is The Christ.</q> (T. 70.) <q>The mention of worshippers
proves that the measuring is symbolical. To
<q><emph>measure</emph></q> is to separate for sacred purposes; what is excluded
from the measurement is, accordingly, more or less
mingled with evil. Hence, in this place, what is measured&mdash;the
true believer typified&mdash;is to be exempted from the
Judgments in which what is <emph>not</emph> measured (ver. 2) is involved.</q>
(Cook). <q>If the direction be understood figuratively,
as applicable to the Christian Church, the work to
be done would be to obtain an exact estimate or measurement
of what the true Church was&mdash;as distinguished from
all other bodies of men, and as constituted, and appointed,
by the direction of God; such a measurement that its
characteristics could be made known; that a church could
be organized according to this, and that the accurate description
<pb n='172'/><anchor id='Pg172'/>
could be transmitted to future times.</q> (Barnes.)&mdash;Ezek.
40:3; Rev. 21:15.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the altar.</hi>&mdash;The Golden Altar, within the <q>Holy</q>,
the true Church, as sacrificers.&mdash;Ex. 30:1-10.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And them that worship therein.</hi>&mdash;The several volumes of
<hi rend='italic'>Scripture Studies</hi> and the booklet <hi rend='italic'>Tabernacle Shadows</hi>
are devoted to the <q>measurements</q> herein prophesied.
</p>

<p>
11:2. <hi rend='sans'>But the court which is [without] WITHIN the Temple
leave out.</hi>&mdash;The court here represents the same thing
as is represented in the Court of the Tabernacle in the
wilderness, the condition of progression toward complete
Justification.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And measure it not.</hi>&mdash;Devote all attention to the higher
privileges of the <q>Holy</q>. The <q>Court</q> was merely provided
as a proper approach to the <q>Holy</q>. Acceptance of
Christ as one's Savior, appreciation of His work at Calvary,
and washing one's self in the water of the Word as
represented respectively by the First Gate, Brazen Altar,
and Laver of the <q>Court</q> are not the things to which we
are particularly invited; but consecration to God's will,
illumination by His Spirit, appropriation of His promises
and sacrifice of our all, acceptable to the Father through
our great High Priest, represented respectively by the
Second Gate or Door, the Candlestick, Table of Shew-bread
and Golden Altar of the <q>Holy</q>, are the things to
which we were called: so that we might pass the Third
Gate or Veil, actual death of the body, and finally become
a part of The Christ, represented by the Ark of the Covenant,
of which our Father is the Head.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For it is given ALSO unto the Gentiles.</hi>&mdash;With the deliverance
of the Little Flock, the condition represented by
the <q>Holy</q> ceases. This leaves the Great Company still
in the <q>Court</q> and the special objects of Gentile wrath
as their kingdoms fall into ruin. <q>Being denied the liberty
accorded to the Priests, these will have merely the
standing of justification, which, if they maintain, will
constitute them worthy of eternal life. But that life will
not be human life, because they gave that up in order to
become Priests. Their failure puts them out of the Holy
condition back into the Court condition.</q> (Z. '11-22.)
</p>

<p>
<q>After the establishment of Messiah's Kingdom, this distinction
between the Church proper, joint-heirs with
Christ, and the larger company of antitypical Levites, will
be perpetual, and the services of the two will be different.
The former will be a Priesthood corresponding to that of
Melchizedek&mdash;a Priest upon His Throne. The work of
the latter will correspond more to that accomplished by
the Levites; namely, teaching the people, etc., as servants
<pb n='173'/><anchor id='Pg173'/>
of the Priests, from whom they will receive their
directions.</q>&mdash;Z. '14-79.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the Holy City.</hi>&mdash;The embryo Kingdom of God.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Shall they tread under foot.</hi>&mdash;<q>The Kingdom of Heaven
suffereth violence, and the violent take it by force.</q>&mdash;Matt.
11:12.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Forty and two months.</hi>&mdash;1260 years from papacy's establishment
as a temporal power, 539 A. D. to 1799 A. D.&mdash;B.
91, 310; C. 50, 64; Dan. 7:25; 12:7; Rev. 12:6, 14; 13:5;
Jas. 5:17.
</p>

<p>
11:3. <hi rend='sans'>And I will give power unto My Two Witnesses.</hi>&mdash;<q>The
Lord refers to the Old and New Testament Scriptures,
and faithfully they have borne their testimony to
every nation.</q>&mdash;D. 258.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And they shall prophesy.</hi>&mdash;Teach.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>A thousand, two hundred and three score days.</hi>&mdash;1260
years, from A. D. 539 to 1799.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Clothed in sackcloth.</hi>&mdash;<q>Kept covered in dead languages.</q>&mdash;C.
50.
</p>

<p>
11:4. <hi rend='sans'>These are the Two Olive Trees.</hi>&mdash;Sources of the oil,
the holy Spirit.&mdash;Zech. 4:1-6; Rom. 11:17.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the Two Candlesticks.</hi>&mdash;<q>The <emph>light</emph> of the world,
during all the darkness of the past.</q>&mdash;D. 652.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Standing before the [God] LORD of the earth.</hi>&mdash;Jehovah.
<q>The earth is the Lord's.</q>&mdash;Psa. 24:1.
</p>

<p>
11:5. <hi rend='sans'>And if any man will hurt them.</hi>&mdash;<q>And if any man
<emph>desireth</emph> to hurt them. The present tense here points to
the continued enmity of the world to the Church, during
the entire course of the Witnesses' testimony.</q>&mdash;Cook.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Fire proceedeth out of their mouth.</hi>&mdash;<q>I will make My
words in thy mouth fire, and this people wood, and it
shall devour them.</q>&mdash;Jer. 5:14.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And devoureth their enemies.</hi>&mdash;<q>History supplies the
illustrations&mdash;the fire that consumed the opponents of
Moses (Num. 16:28, 35), and that which came down at the
word of Elijah. (2 Kings 1:10, 12)</q>&mdash;Cook.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And if any man will hurt them, he must in this manner
be killed.</hi>&mdash;<q>Therefore have I hewed them by the Prophets;
and I have slain them by the words of My mouth.</q>&mdash;Hos.
6:5.
</p>

<p>
11:6. <hi rend='sans'>These have power to shut heaven.</hi>&mdash;The literal
heavens and the spiritual heavens.&mdash;1 Ki. 17:1.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That it rain not.</hi>&mdash;That there be no literal showers, or
spiritual showers of blessings.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>In the days of their prophecy.</hi>&mdash;Literally in the three
and one half years in Elijah's day in which there was no
rain (James 5:17) and spiritually in the three and one
half times, or 1260 years, from A. D. 539 to 1799 in which
<pb n='174'/><anchor id='Pg174'/>
the showers of blessing were withheld from the world.&mdash;Rev.
2:20.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And have power over waters.</hi>&mdash;Literal and symbolic.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To turn them into blood.</hi>&mdash;Literally as when Moses
turned the waters of Egypt into blood (Exodus 7:21.)
Symbolically during this Harvest time in which the Heavenly
Harvest truths have become <q>bloody</q>, repulsive, abhorrent,
symbolizing death where they should be received
as a blessing.&mdash;Z. '07-279.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[And] to smite the earth with all plagues.</hi>&mdash;Literal and
symbolic.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>As often as they will.</hi>&mdash;Literally in the plagues which
Moses poured out upon the Egyptians (Exodus 7 to 11.)
Symbolically in the spiritual plagues, the seven last upon
Christendom.&mdash;Rev. 16.
</p>

<p>
11:7. <hi rend='sans'>And when they shall have finished their testimony.</hi>&mdash;In
the dead languages, about the time of the end
of papacy's power to persecute.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The beast that THEN ascendeth out of the [bottomless
pit] ABYSS.</hi>&mdash;The government without a foundation; revolutionary
France during the <q>Reign of Terror.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Shall make war against them.</hi>&mdash;<q>In 1793 a decree passed
the French Assembly forbidding the Bible; and under that
decree the Bibles were gathered and burned, every possible
mark of contempt was heaped upon them.</q>&mdash;Smith.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And shall overcome them, and kill them.</hi>&mdash;<q>All the institutions
of the Bible were abolished; the weekly rest day
was blotted out, and every tenth day substituted for mirth
and profanity. Baptism and the communion were abolished.
The being of God was denied, and death proclaimed
an eternal sleep. The Goddess of Reason, in the
person of a vile woman, was set up, and publicly worshipped.</q>&mdash;Smith.
</p>

<p>
11:8. <hi rend='sans'>And their dead bodies shall lie in the street.</hi>&mdash;France.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the great city.</hi>&mdash;Christendom, the Old Roman Empire.&mdash;Rev.
14:8; 16:19; 17:9, 18; 18:2, 10, 16, 18, 19, 21.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which spiritually is called Sodom.</hi>&mdash;<q><q>Remember Lot's
wife!</q> is our Lord's pointed warning. How intensely
forceful it is as a caution to God's people here, in the
close of the Gospel Age. When we learn that Babylon
is doomed, and hear the Lord's message, <q>Come out of her
My people that ye be not partakers of her sins and that
ye receive not of her plagues,</q> it is indeed like the voice
of the messengers who hastened Lot and his family out
of Sodom, saying, <q>Stay not in all the plain; escape for thy
life; escape to the mountain lest thou be consumed; look
not behind thee.</q> (Gen. 19:17). Christendom is <q>that great
<pb n='175'/><anchor id='Pg175'/>
city [Babylon] which spiritually is called Sodom.</q></q>&mdash;D. 607,
608; Rev. 17:5; Isa. 1:9, 10; 3:8, 9; Jer. 23:14; Ezek.
16:48, 41.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And Egypt.</hi>&mdash;<q>Egypt is recognized as a symbol or type
of the world of mankind, full of vain philosophies, but
ignorant of the true Light.</q>&mdash;C. 315; Ezek. 23:3, 4, 8, 27.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Where also [our] THE Lord was crucified.</hi>&mdash;Catholic
France, through its connection with the papacy, is a part
of the old Roman Empire, in another part of which our
Lord was slain. In another aspect France is identified
with the death of the Lord. Anything done to the least
of one of the Lord's little ones is counted as done to
Himself. When Saul of Tarsus persecuted the Lord's
saints, the One who met him in the way said, <q>I am
Jesus whom thou persecutest.</q> (Acts 9:4, 5; 22:7, 8; 26:14,
15.) A plot was laid in France to destroy all the Protestants;
and on Aug. 24, 1572, sixty thousand were murdered,
and the streets of Paris literally ran with blood. The
Protestants were in Paris under a solemn oath of safety,
to celebrate the marriage of the king of Navarre. Admiral
Coligny, a Protestant of great ability and prominence,
was basely murdered in his own house, and his
head was sent to his holiness, the Pope, as proof that he
was really dead. The <q>Holy Father of Fathers</q>, the
<q>Vicar of Christ</q>, the <q>Chief Pastor and Teacher</q>, was so
pleased that <q>bells were rung, and guns were fired, bonfires
were set ablaze; and Gregory XIII, attended by cardinals,
archbishops, bishops, and a great throng of prelates,
marched in procession. A <hi rend='italic'>Te Deum</hi> was chanted,
and the Pope commissioned the painter Vasari to paint
the scene of the massacre, and employed an artist to engrave
a medal commemorative of the event. The preachers
in Rome delivered eloquent orations, and a messenger
carried a golden rose to Charles as a present from
the Pope.</q>&mdash;Coffin.
</p>

<p>
11:9. <hi rend='sans'>And they of the people.</hi>&mdash;The Protestant people.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And kindreds and tongues and nations.</hi>&mdash;Of other parts
of Europe.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[Shall] see their dead [bodies] BODY.</hi>&mdash;<q>As if though
silenced in death they continued witnesses still.</q> (Cook.)
Take note of the horrible effect upon France of their effort
to exterminate the Scriptures. <q>The more deeply the
French Revolution is considered, the more manifest is its
preeminence above all the strange and terrible things that
have come to pass on this earth. Every ancient institution
and every time honored custom disappeared in a
moment. The whole social and political system went
down before the first stroke. Monarchy, nobility and
<pb n='176'/><anchor id='Pg176'/>
church were swept away almost without resistance. The
good things of this world,&mdash;birth, rank, wealth, fine clothes
and elegant manners,&mdash;became worldly perils, and worldly
disadvantages. The people waged a war of such extermination
with everything established, as to abolish the
common forms of address and salutation, and the common
mode of reckoning time, abhorred <q>you</q> as a sin, and
shrank from <q>monsieur</q> as an abomination, turned the
weeks into decades, and would know the old months no
more. The demolished halls of the aristocracy, the rifled
sepulchres of royalty, the decapitated king and queen, the
little dauphin so sadly done to death, the beggared
princes, the slaughtered priests and nobles, the sovereign
guillotine, the republican marriages, the Meudon tannery,
the couples tied together and thrown into the Loire, and
the gloves made of men's and women's skins: these things
are most horrible.</q> (T. H. Gill, <hi rend='italic'>The Papal Drama</hi>.)&mdash;D. 537.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Three days and an half.</hi>&mdash;See Rev. 11:11.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And [shall not] suffer NOT their dead bodies to be put
in [graves] A GRAVE.</hi>&mdash;On the contrary, this very attempt
<q>served to arouse Christians everywhere to put forth new
exertions in behalf of the Bible.</q>&mdash;Smith.
</p>

<p>
11:10. <hi rend='sans'>And they that dwell upon the earth.</hi>&mdash;The people
of France, then infidels, without any hopes except for the
present poor earth-life.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[Shall] rejoice over them, and make merry.</hi>&mdash;Literally
fulfilled when the Assembly proscribed the Scriptures.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And [shall] send gifts one to another.</hi>&mdash;Literally fulfilled,
the gifts being expressions of joy over the sudden
<q>liberty,</q> <q>a custom usual in times of festivity.</q>&mdash;Neh.
8:10, 12; Esth. 9:19, 22.&mdash;Cook.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Because these Two Prophets tormented.</hi>&mdash;By continuing
to proclaim the coming Reign of Christ and His Church.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Them that dwelt on the earth.</hi>&mdash;The classes whose hopes
and destinies are earthly.
</p>

<p>
11:11. <hi rend='sans'>And after three days and an half.</hi>&mdash;Three years
and one half.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The Spirit of life from God entered into Them.</hi>&mdash;In a
symbolic sense They were <q>raised from the dead.</q>&mdash;Ezek.
37:5, 9, 10, 14.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And They stood upon Their feet.</hi>&mdash;See Ezek. 37:10. <q>In
1793, a decree passed the French Assembly suppressing
the Bible. Just three years after, a resolution was introduced
into the Assembly superseding the decree, and giving
toleration to the Scriptures. That resolution lay on
the table six months, when it was taken up, and passed
without a dissenting vote. Thus, in just three years and a
half, the Witnesses <q>stood upon their feet.</q></q>&mdash;Smith.
</p>

<pb n='177'/><anchor id='Pg177'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And great fear fell upon them which saw them.</hi>&mdash;<q>Nothing
but the appalling results of the rejection of the Bible,
could have induced France to take her hands off these
Witnesses.</q> (Smith.) <q>In the light of the foretold character
of coming events of this battle, we may regard the
French Revolution as only the rumbling of distant thunder,
giving warning of an approaching storm; as a slight
tremor preceding the general earthquake shock; as the
premonitory click of the great clock of the ages, which
gives notice to those already awake that the wheels are in
motion, and that shortly it will strike the midnight hour
which will end the present order of affairs and usher in a
new order,&mdash;the Year of Jubilee, with its attendant commotion
and changes of possession.</q>&mdash;D. 535.
</p>

<p>
In comments on Rev. 3:14, reasons are given for anticipating
the deliverance of the Little Flock about Passover,
1918 [possibly on the <hi rend='italic'>Passover day</hi>, as a result of activities
by the tribe of Dan. (Jer. 8:16.)] There we noted
the Lord's use of the half-week principle. In this prophecy,
we have the same principle. The French Revolution
is Divinely provided as a picture of events now at hand,
and we therefore expect three and a half years of proscription
of the Truth, from the spring of 1918 to the fall
of 1921. This will give the Great Company splendid
opportunities for martyrdom and allow another three and
a half years, to the spring of 1925, for the world to think
the matter over, by which time, doubtless, they will be
quite ready to listen to the voice that speaketh from
Heaven.&mdash;Heb. 12:19.
</p>

<p>
11:12. <hi rend='sans'>And they heard a great voice from Heaven.</hi>&mdash;The
voice last referred to&mdash;the Lord Jesus Himself, the
<q>voice,</q> the <q>Word,</q> of the Heavenly Father.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Saying unto them, Come up hither.</hi>&mdash;<q>The Two Witnesses
of God, the Old and New Testaments, ascended to
heaven, the place of honor and power, as the Scriptures
symbolically represent the matter.</q>&mdash;Z. '15-199.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And they ascended up to heaven.</hi>&mdash;<q>The British and
Foreign Bible Society (which has distributed 230,000,000
copies of the Bible) was established in 1803; the New
York Bible Society in 1804; the Berlin-Prussian Bible
Society in 1805; the Philadelphia Bible Society in 1808;
and the American Bible Society (127,000,000 copies distributed)
in 1817. Bibles by the million, in over 300 languages,
are published yearly and sold at low prices, and
many thousands are given away to the poor. It is difficult
to estimate the wide influence of this work. Its quiet
teaching is the greatest of all levelers and equalizers.</q>&mdash;C. 51.
</p>

<pb n='178'/><anchor id='Pg178'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>In a cloud.</hi>&mdash;In a time of trouble, the French Revolution.
The exaltation which the Word of God received as a
result of the French Revolution is as nothing compared
with the exaltation which awaits it after the <q>Time of
Trouble such as was not since there was a nation.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And their enemies beheld them.</hi>&mdash;As the enemies of the
Word of God were compelled by the stern logic of events
to consent to its restoration in the French time of
trouble, so the Lord's enemies, and the enemies of His
Church, will be compelled to submit to the Reign of Truth
when their forces have been exhausted in the Battle of
the great Day of God Almighty.&mdash;Luke 19:27; Isa. 54:11-17.
</p>

<p>
11:13. <hi rend='sans'>And the same hour was there a great earthquake.</hi>&mdash;<q>In
the symbolic language of Revelation, the
French Revolution was indeed a <q>great earthquake</q>&mdash;a
social shock so great that all <q>Christendom</q> trembled until
it was over; and that terrible and sudden outburst of a
single nation's wrath, only a century ago, may give some
idea of the fury of the coming storm, when the wrath of
all the angry nations will burst the bands of law and
order and cause a reign of universal anarchy. In fact,
the French Revolution seems referred to by our Lord in
His Revelation to John on Patmos as a prelude to, and
an illustration of, the great crisis now approaching.</q>&mdash;D. 531.
</p>

<p>
The French Revolution lasted ten and a half years, from
June 17th, 1789, when the Assembly began its reign, until
Napoleon seized the government and caused himself to be
appointed First Consul, November 9th, 1799. This coincides
well with the thought previously expressed (Rev.
7:3) that all phases of Babylon will not be disposed of
until about ten and a half years from the fall of 1914.
The Assembly was in control from the first, but did not
execute the king until January 21st, 1793, three years and
one-half from the time the trouble started. The Assembly
continued in control until June 25th, 1795, six years
from the time the trouble began, when the government
was intrusted to five persons under the name of the
Directory. It was on October 4th of the same year that
Napoleon cleared the streets of Paris of the mobs, and
from that point onward his star began to rise. Some
interesting developments in connection with the setting
up of the Kingdom may occur in 1920, six years after the
great Time of Trouble began. It would not be strange
if this were so, when we recall that after forty years
wandering in the wilderness the Israelites came into possession
of the land of Canaan after a further six years.
As these matters are still future we can but wait to see.
<pb n='179'/><anchor id='Pg179'/>
We anticipate that the <q>earthquake</q> will occur early in
1918, and that the <q>fire</q> will come in the fall of 1920.&mdash;1
Kings 19:11, 12; Z. '98-207, 208.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the tenth part of the city fell.</hi>&mdash;The French part of
Christendom; one of the ten toes of the image seen by
Nebuchadnezzar; one of the ten horns of Daniel's beast
and John's dragon.&mdash;Dan. 2:41-43; 7:24; Rev. 12:3.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And in the earthquake were slain of men seven thousand.</hi>&mdash;<q>And
by the earthquake were destroyed seven
thousand names of men.</q> (Diaglott.) <q>France made war,
in her revolution of 1793-98, on all titles of nobility. It is
said by those who have examined the French records,
that just seven thousand titles of men were abolished in
that revolution.</q>&mdash;Smith.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the remnant were affrighted and gave glory to the
God of Heaven.</hi>&mdash;<q>Their God-dishonoring and Heaven-defying
work filled France with such scenes of blood,
carnage, and horror, as made even the infidels themselves
tremble, and stand aghast; and the <q>remnant</q> that escaped
the horrors of that hour <q>gave glory to God</q>&mdash;not
willingly, but the God of Heaven caused this <q>wrath of
man to praise Him,</q> by causing all the world to see that
those who make war on Heaven make graves for themselves;
thus glory redounded to God by the very means
that wicked men employed to tarnish that glory. For
the statistics and many of the foregoing thoughts on the
Two Witnesses, we are indebted to an exposition of the
subject of The Two Witnesses, by the late George Storrs.</q>
(Smith.) <q>And here I gratefully mention assistance rendered
by Brothers George Stetson and George Storrs, the
latter the Editor of <hi rend='italic'>The Bible Examiner</hi>, both now deceased.
The study of the Word of God with these dear
brethren led step by step into greener pastures and
brighter hopes for the world.</q>&mdash;Pastor Russell's Autobiography.
Z. '16-170.
</p>

<p>
11:14. <hi rend='sans'>The second woe is past.</hi>&mdash;In the narrative of
Chapter XI are briefly summed up the three most important
events of the Time of the End. Between the
French Revolution and the great Time of Trouble occurs
a most significant event, which leads up to and is the
direct cause of the great Time of Trouble. That event is
the second woe. It is described in detail in Rev. 9:14-21.
But for this the great Time of Trouble would never have
been necessary (Mal. 4:6); but it is necessary now, as
necessary as was the Flood in Noah's day, and for the
same reason&mdash;to rid the earth of the progeny of the evil
spirits, the <q>abominations of the earth.</q>&mdash;Rev. 17:5; 9:13.
</p>

<pb n='180'/><anchor id='Pg180'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And, behold, the third woe cometh quickly.</hi>&mdash;The third
woe is the Reign of the Lord begun, with its attendant
upsetting of the present order. The woes are visited upon
those interested in maintaining the present order of
things, who would like to retain indefinitely the advantages
they have obtained. <q>The battle of this great Day
of God Almighty will be the greatest revolution the world
has ever seen. Behold, how, even now, the searchlight of
general intelligence is discovering the secret springs of
political intrigue, financial policies, religious claims, etc.,
and how all are brought to the bar of judgment, and by
men, as well as by God, declared right or wrong as judged
by the teachings of the Word of God.</q>&mdash;D. 541.
</p>

<p>
11:15. <hi rend='sans'>And the seventh angel.</hi>&mdash;Pastor Russell. See
Rev. 3:14; 10:7.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Sounded.</hi>&mdash;<q>We find the <q><emph>shout</emph>,</q> the <q><emph>voice of the Archangel</emph></q>
and <q><emph>the trump of God</emph></q> all symbols, and now in
process of fulfillment.</q> (B. 149, 197.) <q>The <q>great trumpet</q>
we understand to be the antitypical <q>trumpet of Jubilee,</q>
as symbolic as the preceding six, none of which ever made
any literal sound. It has been symbolically sounding
since October, 1874, and will continue to the end of the
Millennium.</q>&mdash;D. 601; Rev. 10:7.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And there were great voices in heaven.</hi>&mdash;<q>These voices
have been uttered, and to some extent heard, in the symbolic
heavens, the nominal church. For some years past
a <q>volunteer work</q> has been steadily progressing
amongst the brethren&mdash;the work of rendering assistance
to the members of the Household of Faith still in Babylon,
still in darkness respecting the Lord, His true Character,
His true Plan, and respecting the nearness of His
Kingdom.</q>&mdash;Z. '02-118.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Saying, The [kingdoms] KINGDOM of this world [are]
IS become the [kingdoms] KINGDOM of our Lord, and of
His Christ.</hi>&mdash;<q>The volunteer matter prepared for this present
year (the issues of our journal for February 15 and
March 15) had already been prepared before we thought
of how wonderfully this year's distribution will agree with
the declaration of our text. Here will be a million voices
proclaiming throughout the nominal Church (symbolic
heavens) the great message of this present time; namely,
the Second Presence of our Lord as the reaper of the
Harvest of the Gospel Age, gathering the <q>wheat</q> into the
<q>garner,</q> destroying the tares (as tares&mdash;not as human
beings) and establishing His glorious Kingdom upon a
firm foundation of righteousness and equity, for the blessing
of every creature.</q>&mdash;Z. '02-119.
</p>

<pb n='181'/><anchor id='Pg181'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And He shall reign for ever and ever. AMEN.</hi>&mdash;See Rev.
5:13; Dan. 2:44; 7:14, 18, 27.
</p>

<p>
11:16. <hi rend='sans'>And the [four and] twenty-FOUR elders.</hi>&mdash;The
prophecies pertaining to the Kingdom of God.&mdash;Rev. 4:10.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which [sat] SIT before God on their seats.</hi>&mdash;Rev. 4:4.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Fell upon their faces, and worshipped God.</hi>&mdash;Rev. 4:10.
</p>

<p>
11:17. <hi rend='sans'>Saying, We give thee thanks.</hi>&mdash;See Rev. 5:11-13.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>O Lord God Almighty.</hi>&mdash;<q>Represented in Christ&mdash;<q>All
things are <emph>of</emph> the Father,</q> and <q>all things are <emph>by</emph> the Son,</q>
His honored Representative.</q>&mdash;D. 624.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which art, and wast, and [art to come].</hi>&mdash;See Rev. 1:4.
He is not to come. He <emph>has</emph> come.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Because Thou hast taken to Thee Thy great power, and
hast reigned.</hi>&mdash;<q><q>Thy God reigneth!</q> The oft-repeated
prayer of the Church has been answered: the Kingdom of
God has indeed come. The dead in Christ are even now
risen and exalted with our Lord and Head. And the <q>feet</q>
members of the Body of Christ, who still tarry in the
flesh, catching the inspiration of the glorified throng who
have already ascended into the Mount (Kingdom) of God,
reflect a measure of that transcendent glory, as did Moses
when he came down from Mount Sinai.</q> (C. 301.) <q>In
describing the events under the Seventh Trumpet, this
order is observed:&mdash;(1) the power is taken by the Lord
as King of Earth, and His Reign begun; (2) as a consequence
the great judgment-trouble comes upon the
world.</q>&mdash;D. 622; Rev. 19:6; Psa. 99:1.
</p>

<p>
11:18. <hi rend='sans'>And the nations were angry, and Thy wrath is
come.</hi>&mdash;<q>Although they are called Christian nations, they
have not received the Spirit of the Lord; they have not
received the spirit of meekness, gentleness, long-suffering,
brotherly kindness and love, the fruits of the Holy Spirit;
but on the contrary, the spirit which St. Paul says consists
of hatred, wrath, strife, murder&mdash;works of the flesh
and the Devil. For this reason they did not even wait for
God's wrath to come, but began to bring it upon themselves
nearly two months in advance. They became so
angry that they began to destroy each other even before
their lease of power had expired.</q>&mdash;Z. '14-328.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the time of the dead, that they should be judged.</hi>&mdash;<q>They
cannot be judged without His words, and the vast
majority,&mdash;<q>dead in trespasses and sins,</q> blinded and deafened
by the Adversary, through sin,&mdash;have not thus far
been enabled to hear their Redeemer's wonderful words
of life. In the Millennial Kingdom the dead world will
have the eyes of its understanding opened and its ears
unstopped, and the knowledge of the Lord shall fill the
<pb n='182'/><anchor id='Pg182'/>
whole earth and reach every member of the dead race,
not only those who have not yet gone down into the
tomb, but <q>all the families of the earth;</q> for, <q>all that are
in the grave shall come forth</q> for the very purpose of
hearing the <q>wonderful words of life,</q> and of being judged
by them. If they shall accept them heartily they shall, by
restitution processes, be brought fully up to life conditions.</q>&mdash;Z. '02-116;
Dan. 7:10; Rev. 14:7; 15:4.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And that Thou shouldest give reward unto Thy Servants
the Prophets.</hi>&mdash;Who are therefore without their rewards
until Christ's Second Advent.&mdash;Heb. 11:39, 40.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And to the saints.</hi>&mdash;<q>We hold that it is a most reasonable
inference, and one in perfect harmony with all the
Lord's Plan, that in the spring of 1878 all the holy
Apostles and other <q>overcomers</q> of the Gospel Age who
slept in Jesus were raised spirit beings, like unto their
Lord and Master.</q>&mdash;C. 234.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And them that fear Thy name, small and great.</hi>&mdash;All
other classes of believers, past, present and future.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And shouldest destroy them.</hi>&mdash;The Papal and Protestant
sects.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which destroy the earth.</hi>&mdash;Corrupt the earth, Greek.&mdash;Rev.
19:2.
</p>

<p>
11:19. <hi rend='sans'>And the Temple of God.</hi>&mdash;The true Church.&mdash;1
Cor. 3:16.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Was opened in heaven ABOVE.</hi>&mdash;Was revealed as in the
ascendency over the nominal ecclesiastical heavens.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And there was seen in His Temple.</hi>&mdash;Clearly revealed to
His Church.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The Ark.</hi>&mdash;The repository of the sacred and hidden
things of Revelation and Ezekiel.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of [His] THE testament of God.</hi>&mdash;The Secret&mdash;<q>The
Finished Mystery.</q>&mdash;Psa. 25:14; Col. 1:27; Rev. 14:17;
16:1, 17.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And there were lightnings, and voices and thunderings.</hi>&mdash;See
Rev. 8:5.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And an earthquake.</hi>&mdash;See Rev. 8:5; 16:18.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And great hail.</hi>&mdash;A deluge of Truth in its most compact
form.&mdash;Isa. 28:17; Rev. 16:21.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>The tidal wave is coming, the Year of Jubilee;</q></l>
<l>With shout and song it sweeps along, like billows of the sea,</l>
<l>The jubilee of nations shall ring through earth and sky;</l>
<l><q rend='post'>The dawn of grace draws on apace&mdash;'tis coming by and by.</q></l>
</lg>
</quote>

</div>

<pb n='183'/><anchor id='Pg183'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Revelation 12&mdash;The Birth Of Antichrist</head>

<p>
12:1. <hi rend='sans'>And there appeared a great wonder.</hi>&mdash;Sign, Greek.&mdash;Rev.
1:1.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>In heaven.</hi>&mdash;In the power of spiritual control.&mdash;A. 318;
Eph. 2:4-6; Phil. 3:20.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>A Woman.</hi>&mdash;The early Church, Nominal Zion, (D. 591),
originally a chaste Virgin.&mdash;2 Cor. 11:2; Matt. 9:15; 22:2;
John 3:29; Eph. 5:25, 32.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Clothed with the sun.</hi>&mdash;Resplendent in the full, clear
light of the unclouded Gospel.&mdash;D. 591.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the moon under her feet.</hi>&mdash;<q>The moon under her
feet represents that the Law which supports her is nevertheless
not the source of her light.</q>&mdash;D. 591.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And upon her head a crown of twelve stars.</hi>&mdash;<q>The
twelve stars about her head as a crown represent her
Divinely appointed and inspired teachers&mdash;the Twelve
Apostles.</q> (D. 591.) <q>Now if God ordained only twelve
stars as lights for His Church, as here represented, is it
not a great mistake for popes, bishops and clergy to regard
themselves as successors of the Apostles,&mdash;stars
also?</q>&mdash;D. 594.
</p>

<p>
12:2. <hi rend='sans'>And [she] being with child.</hi>&mdash;As a result of the
Mystery of Iniquity which was working within her.&mdash;2
Thes. 2:7.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[Cried], AND SHE CRIETH travailing in birth.</hi>&mdash;Felt the
weight of the burden even in apostolic days.&mdash;Rev. 2:2.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And pained to be delivered.</hi>&mdash;Desired to get rid of the
loathsome thing from which, by the machinations of
Satan, she was at the time suffering. In a sense the birth
of the Antichrist from the early Church was a counterfeit
of the birth of Christ from the virgin Mary, the one a
manifestation of the power of God, the other of Satan.&mdash;John
16:21, 22.
</p>

<p>
12:3. <hi rend='sans'>And there appeared another wonder in heaven.</hi>&mdash;Among
the ecclesiastical powers of the same epoch.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And behold a great red dragon.</hi>&mdash;The Pagan Roman Empire,
which had its own religious system. <q>The Roman
Empire had not only conquered the world and given it
politics and laws, but, recognizing religious superstitions
to be the strongest chains by which to hold and control
a people, it had adopted a scheme which had its origin
<pb n='184'/><anchor id='Pg184'/>
in Babylon, in the time of her greatness as ruler of the
world. That plan was, that the emperor should be esteemed
the director and ruler in religious as well as in
civil affairs. In support of this, it was claimed that the
emperor was a demi-god, in some sense descended from
their heathen deities. As such he was worshipped and his
statues adored; and as such he was styled <hi rend='italic'>Pontifex Maximus</hi>&mdash;i. e.,
Chief Priest or Greatest Religious Ruler.</q>&mdash;B. 288.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Having seven heads and ten horns.</hi>&mdash;See Dan. 7:7, 20;
Rev. 13:1; 17:3, 9-12; 5:6; 1 Sam. 2:10; Deut. 33:17; 1 Ki.
22:11. The Eastern, or Byzantine Empire, was founded
in A. D. 395, when Theodosius divided the Roman Empire
between his two sons, Honorius and Arcadius, assigning
to the latter all the portion lying east of the Adriatic sea.
At this time the Roman Empire became the two legs of
Nebuchadnezzar's vision. At the time the division was
made the five potential races in the East were the Greeks,
Lombards, Ostrogoths, Heruli and Vandals. The five potential
races in the West were the Franks, Britons,
Saxons, Visigoths and Suevi. During the next one hundred
and fifty years great migrations and invasions have
so confused history that there is great difference of opinion
among historians on many important details. It is
plain, however, that three of the migratory races disappeared
from history, all within a few years of each other,
apparently in order to leave Rome and its environs free
for the development of the papacy. The Heruli, a race
from Germanic territory, disappeared from Italian territory
in A. D. 489; the Vandals, a race from the shores of
the Baltic (never in control of Rome except on a brief
raid, but a great enemy of the papacy) disappeared in
A. D. 534; and the Ostrogoths, an Asiatic race, in A. D.
539. The Western Empire itself disappeared in A. D. 476.
The matter is treated by Pastor Russell at greater length
in C. 76, 77, and all his statements are, of course, correct.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And seven crowns upon his heads.</hi>&mdash;In the Eastern Empire,
corresponding to the present Turkey and the Balkans,
and in Lombardy, corresponding to the present
Austria, we may see the two horns which remained of
the five Eastern powers after the Ostrogoths, Heruli and
Vandals disappeared. And in the Visigothic Kingdom,
corresponding to Spain; Suevia, corresponding to Portugal;
the Kingdom of the Franks, corresponding to France
and the Netherlands; Saxonia, corresponding to Germany
and Scandinavia; and Britannia, corresponding to Great
Britain, we may see the five horns which represented the
<pb n='185'/><anchor id='Pg185'/>
five western powers. The following explains why Italy
is not included in the list:
</p>

<p>
<q>The difficulty of Italian history lies in the fact that
until modern times the Italians have had no political
unity, no independence, no organized existence as a nation.
Split up into numerous and mutually hostile communities,
they never, through the fourteen centuries which
have elapsed since the end of the old Western Empire,
shook off the yoke of foreigners completely; they never
until lately learned to merge their local and conflicting
interests in the common good of undivided Italy. Their
history is therefore not the history of a single people,
centralizing and absorbing its constituent elements by a
process of continued evolution, but a group of cognate
populations, exemplifying divers types of constitutional
developments.</q>&mdash;Brit.
</p>

<p>
The foregoing justifies Pastor Russell's thought that the
Western Empire should be counted as one of the horns
rooted up to make way for the Papacy. As to whether it
or the Vandal race should be counted as the third horn,
since both were destroyed, is a matter of no great importance
to us. The point of greatest interest now is
that the Lord is about to destroy the other seven, including
the Papacy. All the powers named, except Spain, are
already in the great War. Indeed, except South America,
which expects to be dragged in, the only countries of
the world not now (June, 1917) engaged in the war are
Scandinavia, Holland, Switzerland, Spain, Abyssinia and
Mexico.&mdash;Jer. 25:15-38.
</p>

<p>
12:4. <hi rend='sans'>And his tail.</hi>&mdash;Constantine, last of the Roman emperors
to maintain his capital at Rome. <q>After the senate
and people of Rome had ceased to be the sovereigns of the
Roman world, and their authority had been vested in
the sole person of the emperor, the eternal city could no
longer claim to be the rightful throne of the state. That
honor could henceforth be conferred upon any place in
the Roman world which might suit the convenience of
the emperor, or serve more efficiently the interests he
had to guard. Furthermore, the empire was now upon its
defense. When Constantine, therefore, established a new
seat of government at Byzantium, he adopted a policy
inaugurated before his day as essential to the preservation
of the Roman dominion. He can claim originality
only in his choice of the particular point at which that
seat was placed, and in his recognition of the fact that his
alliance with the Christian church could be best maintained
in the new atmosphere. The city was founded by
Constantine the Great, through the enlargement of the
<pb n='186'/><anchor id='Pg186'/>
old town of Byzantium, in A. D. 328, and was inaugurated
as a new seat of government on the 11th of May, A. D.
330. To indicate its political dignity, it was named New
Rome, while to perpetuate the name of its founder it was
styled Constantinople. The chief patriarch of the Greek
church still signs himself <q>Archbishop of New Rome.</q></q>&mdash;Brit.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url="images/img199.png" rend="width: 80%">
    <head>Paganism Attacks the Early Church</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Drew the third part.</hi>&mdash;<q>The Roman Emperor Constantine
saw a vision&mdash;probably when wide awake&mdash;a vision of
greater prosperity for himself and his Empire, by a recognition
of Christianity as the religion of his Empire instead
of paganism, which had previously been recognized. Constantine's
influence in Church affairs became great. He
proposed the calling of a council of all the bishops, <emph>numbering
about one thousand</emph>. He wanted to know why these
apostolic bishops, all inspired with the same Spirit of
God, taught so differently. He offered to pay the expenses
of all the bishops to the Council of Nice; but the majority,
fearing that the Emperor would be under the control of
the Roman bishop (not yet claiming to be pope), declined
to attend. <emph>Only 384 came.</emph> But even they were unable to
agree. Many held to the Bible teaching, but the mystification
thought of trinity had gained a hold on some of the
bishops. Thereupon Constantine decided the matter; and
the Nicene Creed, backed by the Emperor's power, was
declared to be the Christian faith, and anything contrary
to it, heresy. Yet be it remembered that <emph>only about one-third</emph>
of the bishops were present at the Council; and
that they could not be coerced into substituting <q>mystery</q>
for the Word of God, until the Emperor lent his influence.
Thus was the mystery of trinity enshrined by a heathen
emperor, not baptized&mdash;not even sprinkled. The history
of the persecution of all who would not worship the trinitarian
mystery would fill volumes. One sad illustration is
familiar to all&mdash;the burning of Servetus, by good Brother
Calvin's signature to the death warrant. Is it any wonder
that with such conditions prevailing for centuries, the
Bible ignored and the creeds worshipped, the true teachings
of the Bible on many subjects were completely lost
sight of? Is it any wonder that, when in the sixteenth
century God began to bring the Bible back to the attention
of the world, it was burned by the Episcopal bishops in
front of St. Paul's Cathedral in London? Is it any wonder
that the Christians of that time were persecuted for
studying it, and could meet only in secret?</q>&mdash;B. S. M.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the stars of heaven.</hi>&mdash;False stars, <q>wandering stars,</q>
man-ordained lights of the nominal heavens.&mdash;D. 595. There
the bishops became substitutes for the true Apostolic stars.
</p>

<pb n='187'/><anchor id='Pg187'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And did cast them to the earth.</hi>&mdash;Forced them to teach
what he told them or else be banished, as was Arius.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the dragon.</hi>&mdash;Imperial Rome, represented by Constantine.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Stood before the woman which was ready to be delivered.</hi>&mdash;The
early Christian Church.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For to devour her child.</hi>&mdash;Absorb it, make it a subordinate
feature of the Roman system of government.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>As soon as it was born.</hi>&mdash;As soon as the development of
the clergy class and others equally unfaithful to Christ
had made it impossible for them to be retained longer in
the true Church.
</p>

<p>
12:5. <hi rend='sans'>And she brought forth a man child.</hi>&mdash;The papacy.&mdash;Z. '79-12-2.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Who was to rule all nations with a rod of iron.</hi>&mdash;<q rend='pre'>In a
bull, or edict, Sixtus V declares: <q>The authority given
to St. Peter and his successors, by the immense power
of the eternal King, excels all the power of earthly kings
and princes. It passeth uncontrollable sentence upon them
all. And if it find any of them resisting God's ordinance,
it takes more severe vengeance on them, casting them
down from their thrones, however powerful they may be,
and tumbling them down to the lowest parts of the earth
as the ministers of aspiring Lucifer.</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q>A bull of Pope Pius V., entitled <q>The damnation and
excommunication of Elizabeth, queen of England, and her
adherents</q> reads as follows: <q>He that reigneth on high,
to whom is given all power in heaven and in earth, committed
one holy, catholic and apostolic church (out of
which there is no salvation) to one alone upon earth,
namely, to Peter, the Prince of the apostles, and to Peter's
successor, the bishop of Rome, to be governed in fulness
of power. Him alone he made prince over all people and
all kingdoms, to pluck up, destroy, scatter, consume, plant
and build.</q></q>&mdash;B. 311.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And her child was caught up unto God, and [to] UNTO
His throne.</hi>&mdash;<q>St Bernard affirms that <q>none except God
is like the pope, either in heaven or on earth.</q> <q>The
Emperor Constantine,</q> says Pope Nicholas I., <q>conferred
the appellation of God on the pope; who, therefore, being
God, cannot be judged by man.</q> Said Pope Innocent III.&mdash;<q>The
pope holds the place of the true God;</q> and the canon
law, in the gloss, denominates the pope&mdash;<q>our Lord God.</q>
Innocent and Jacobatius state that <q>the pope can do nearly
all that God can do,</q> while Decius rejects the word nearly,
as unnecessary. Jacobatius and Durand assert that <q>none
dare say to him any more than to God&mdash;Lord, what doest
Thou?</q></q>&mdash;B. 311.
</p>

<pb n='188'/><anchor id='Pg188'/>

<p>
Pope Martin stated the matter in his own behalf as
follows: <q>All the earth is my diocese, and I am the
ordinary of all men, having the authority of the King of
all kings upon subjects. I am all in all, and above all,
so that God Himself, and I, the vicar of God, have both
one consistory, and I am able to do almost all that God
can do. In all things that I list my will is to stand for
reason, for I am able by the law to dispense above the
law, and of wrong to make justice in correcting laws and
changing them. Wherefore, if those things that I do be
said not to be done of man, but of God&mdash;What can you
make me but God? Again, if prelates of the church be
called and counted of Constance for Gods, I then, being
above all prelates, seem by this reason to be above all
Gods. Wherefore, no marvel if it be in my power to
change time and times, to alter and abrogate laws, to dispense
with all things, yea, with the precepts of Christ</q>&mdash;B. 314;
Dan. 7:25.
</p>

<p>
12:6. <hi rend='sans'>And the woman.</hi>&mdash;The true Church of God.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Fled Into the wilderness.</hi>&mdash;<q>Error, always more popular
than truth, when exalted to influence and power, hunted
down, proscribed and made disreputable the truth, and all
who held it. This was the time when the true Church
(woman) fled into the wilderness&mdash;into solitude&mdash;an outcast
because of her fidelity to the truth, and to the true
Lord and Head of the Church.</q>&mdash;B. 329.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Where she hath a place prepared of God.</hi>&mdash;<q>The secret
place of the Most High.</q>&mdash;Psa. 91:1.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That they.</hi>&mdash;The antitypical ravens that fed the Elijah
class, the unknown, <q>faithful men</q> who, in secret, broke
the bread of life to those that hungered for righteousness.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Should feed her there.</hi>&mdash;As Elijah was fed in the wilderness.&mdash;Rev.
2:20.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>A thousand two hundred and threescore days.</hi>&mdash;1260
years, from A. D. 539 to 1799.&mdash;Rev. 11:2, 3.
</p>

<p>
12:7. <hi rend='sans'>And there was war in heaven.</hi>&mdash;Between the two
ecclesiastical powers, Pagan Rome and Papal Rome.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Michael.</hi>&mdash;<q>Who as God,</q> the Pope.&mdash;B. 275; C. 62.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And his angels.</hi>&mdash;The Bishops. The following is the reply
given in the Catholic catechism to the question, <q>Who are
the successors of the Apostles?</q> Ans. <q>The bishops who
are rightly consecrated, and are in communion with the
head of the Church, the Pope.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[Fought against] TO WAR WITH the dragon.</hi>&mdash;Attempted
to get the temporal power away from the civil rulers.&mdash;Rev.
2:12.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the dragon.</hi>&mdash;Imperial Rome.&mdash;B. 288; Rev. 12:3; 20:2.
</p>

<pb n='189'/><anchor id='Pg189'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Fought and his angels.</hi>&mdash;Did everything possible to circumscribe
the growing power of the papacy, but all in
vain.&mdash;Rev. 2:12.
</p>

<p>
12:8. <hi rend='sans'>And THEY prevailed not AGAINST HIM, neither
was [their place] HE THEN found any more in heaven.</hi>&mdash;The
Papacy came out of the contest victorious. <q>Paganism,
defeated, relinquished all things pertaining to religious
affairs and contented itself with social, civic and political
affairs,</q> so stated one of Pastor Russell's coworkers.
</p>

<p>
12:9. <hi rend='sans'>And the great dragon was cast out.</hi>&mdash;Verses 9 to 12
contain the rejoicings of the Papacy over their triumph.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That old serpent, called the Devil, [and] Satan.</hi>&mdash;<q>To
this fourth beast, representing Rome, Daniel gives no
descriptive name. While the others are described as lion-like,
bear-like and leopard-like, the fourth was so ferocious
and hideous that none of the beasts of earth could be
compared with it. John the Revelator, seeing in vision
the same symbolic beast (government), was also at a loss
for a name by which to describe it, and finally gives it
several. Among others, he called it <q>the Devil.</q> He certainly
chose an appropriate name; for Rome, when viewed
in the light of its bloody persecutions, certainly has been
the most devilish of all earthly governments. Even in
its change from Rome Pagan to Rome Papal it illustrated
one of Satan's chief characteristics; for he also transforms
himself to appear as an angel of light (2 Cor. 11:14), as
Rome transformed itself from heathenism and claimed to
be Christian&mdash;the Kingdom of Christ.</q>&mdash;A. 258.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which deceiveth the whole world.</hi>&mdash;By intimating that
anybody in it except the pope has any right to say anything
about how it should be run.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>He was cast out into the earth.</hi>&mdash;We, the Papacy, are in
control!
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And his angels were cast out with him.</hi>&mdash;We, the cardinals,
etc., have the positions of power once held by the
priests of Pagan Rome!
</p>

<p>
12:10. <hi rend='sans'>And I heard a loud voice saying in heaven.</hi>&mdash;In
the Roman Catholic Church.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Now is come salvation, and strength.</hi>&mdash;<q>Cardinal Manning,
Papacy's chief representative in England, endorses
and draws public attention to the following clause of the
Catholic faith: <q>We declare, affirm, define, and pronounce
it necessary to salvation, for every human creature to be
subject to the Roman Pontiff.</q> And in a published discourse
he represents the pope as saying, <q>I claim to be
the Supreme Judge and Director of the consciences of
men; of the peasant that tills the field, and the prince
that sits on the throne; of the household that lives in the
<pb n='190'/><anchor id='Pg190'/>
shade of privacy, and the Legislature that makes laws
for kingdoms. I am the sole, last, Supreme Judge of what
is right and wrong.</q></q>&mdash;B. 317.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the kingdom of our God.</hi>&mdash;The Papacy really believed
that its exaltation to power was the exaltation of
the kingdom of God in the earth, and so it was, but not
<emph>our</emph> God.&mdash;2 Cor. 4:4.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the power of His Christ.</hi>&mdash;The pope really believes
he is the Vicar of Christ.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For the accuser of our brethren is cast down.</hi>&mdash;It seemed
to the Papacy that in undermining and supplanting Imperial
Rome they had gained a great victory for Christ.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which accused them before our God day and night.</hi>&mdash;Pagan
Rome truthfully accused the Papacy of lying,
simony, murder, adultery, and every crime on the calendar.&mdash;Rev.
2:13.
</p>

<p>
12:11. <hi rend='sans'>And they overcame him by the blood of the
Lamb.</hi>&mdash;This is the way it looks to Catholics even to this
day. <q>By this sign [the cross] conquer!</q> was the Crusaders'
standard.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And by the word of their testimony.</hi>&mdash;But not by the
testimony of history or of God's Word, both of which
show that <q>their testimony</q> (i. e., the testimony of the
papacy, in the forged decretals and otherwise) was one
of continuous lies.&mdash;Dan. 11:27.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And they loved not their lives unto the death.</hi>&mdash;This was
the Catholic viewpoint.
</p>

<p>
12:12. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore rejoice, ye heavens.</hi>&mdash;Catholic heavens&mdash;popes,
bishops and prelates.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And ye that dwell in them.</hi>&mdash;<q>The under-priests of
Papacy, not parts or members of <emph>the</emph> church or hierarchy,
but called <q>Brothers.</q></q>&mdash;B. 303.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Woe to the [inhabiters of] the earth and [of] the sea.</hi>&mdash;It
seemed to the Papacy as though the Millennium, and
the great Time of Trouble which the Scriptures everywhere
show is to precede it, were just at hand.&mdash;Rev. 7:1
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For the devil is come down to you.</hi>&mdash;The papal thought
that Pagan Rome was a good representative of the Devil
is quite right; and the Scriptures return the compliment.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Having [great] wrath.</hi>&mdash;Being very greatly angered at
Papacy's aggressions. The Papal policy has ever been to
crowd the civil powers as far as they could possibly go,
then wait until a generation had passed and crowd some
more. The horns have <emph>always</emph> hated the whore.&mdash;Rev.
17:16.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Because he knoweth he hath but a short time.</hi>&mdash;Had
Papacy been able to bring it about it would surely, in
time, have deprived all the rulers of the world of every
<pb n='191'/><anchor id='Pg191'/>
particle of civil, social, ecclesiastical and financial power.
There has never been any limit to its ambitions or pretensions,
and there is none now.
</p>

<p>
12:13. <hi rend='sans'>And when the dragon.</hi>&mdash;The civil powers of the
old Roman Empire, under the control of the Papacy.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Saw that he was cast unto the earth.</hi>&mdash;Deprived of the
superstitious reverence now almost wholly absorbed by the
Papacy.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>He persecuted.</hi>&mdash;Not on his own account, but under the
orders and instructions and encouragements of the Papacy,
and to win Papal approval.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The woman which brought forth the man child.</hi>&mdash;The
true Church. For details of the infamous work of Charles
V, Emperor of Germany and King of Spain and the Netherlands,
the Duke of Alva, Philip II of Spain, the French
kings Francis and Henry, see pages 337-338 of <hi rend='smallcaps'>Studies in
the Scriptures</hi>, Vol. II. These are but illustrations of what
occurred in all parts of the old Roman world, and were
all done at the behest of the Papacy.
</p>

<p>
12:14. <hi rend='sans'>And to the woman.</hi>&mdash;The true Church.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Were given Two Wings.</hi>&mdash;The Old and New Testaments.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of a great eagle.</hi>&mdash;The eagle is a symbol of wisdom, a
fit representative of the Scriptures in which are contained
the words of our God. (Rev. 4:7.) <q>I bare you on eagle's
wings, and brought you unto Myself.</q>&mdash;Ex. 19:4; Deut.
32:11-12.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That she might fly into the wilderness.</hi>&mdash;Separateness
from the world; ostracism; represented by Elijah's three
and a half years in the wilderness.&mdash;Rev. 2:20.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Into her place, where she is nourished.</hi>&mdash;By Divinely provided
means, of which almost no records have been permitted
to survive the ravages of papal persecution.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Both for a time, and times, and half a time.</hi>&mdash;1260 years
from A. D. 539 to 1799.&mdash;Rev. 11:2, 3.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>From.</hi>&mdash;Safe from.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The face of the Serpent.</hi>&mdash;Satan himself, the real instigator
of all persecutions from the Lord's time even until
now.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the Serpent.</hi>&mdash;Satan himself, at the close of the 1260
years of Papacy's power to persecute.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Cast out of his mouth water as a flood.</hi>&mdash;<q>The strength
of the French revolution, to which reference is here had,
lay in the fact that it was instigated by many stern
truths, regarding priest-craft and king-craft, and regarding
the individual rights and liberties of all. Truths regarding
human rights were seen and expressed there which cause
us surprise when we consider the ignorance, superstition
and servility of that day, under which the masses had so
<pb n='192'/><anchor id='Pg192'/>
long rested. Many of the truths which then swept as a
flood over France, deluging it with blood, are now very
generally accepted among all civilized peoples.</q>&mdash;C. 65.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>After the woman, that he might cause her to be carried
away of the flood.</hi>&mdash;<q>Satan's design in instigating the
French revolution was to create an alarm throughout
Europe, especially the influential class, unfavorable to
liberty, and to illustrate in France the theory that, were
the superstitions of Rome to be overthrown and liberty
to be given full sway, all law and order would speedily
end.</q> This strategy Satan is now about to repeat&mdash;this
time with success, but his triumph will be short.&mdash;C. 66.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the earth.</hi>&mdash;The order-loving people of Europe.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Helped the woman.</hi>&mdash;The true Church.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the earth opened her mouth, and swallowed up the
flood.</hi>&mdash;<q>It is a fact of history that the flood of truth which
spread over France&mdash;arraigning Papacy and its priestcraft,
and monarchy and its parasitic aristocracy, as the
responsible causes of much of the ignorance, poverty and
superstition of the people&mdash;was swallowed up, or absorbed
by the people of Europe generally (The Roman <q>earth</q>).
And when the rulers of Europe formed what was called
<q>The Holy Alliance,</q> for the suppression of the liberties
of the people and the perpetuation of their own thrones, it
was too late to fetter the people; for, having drunk up the
flood of waters, they would not submit. It was too late
to think of re-establishing Papacy, which had been so terribly
humiliated and whose anathemas against liberty and
the French had so reacted against itself; so the pope was
not even invited to join the <q>Holy Alliance,</q> of which
before he would have been the recognized head.</q>&mdash;C. 66.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which the dragon cast out of his mouth.</hi>&mdash;<q>This sudden
flood of waters (truth) was designed to act as an emetic,
to lead to the casting out of the food of liberty, already
being received by the people from the Bible, as the result
of the Reformation, and thus to force rulers and teachers
to oppose the truth through fear of anarchy.</q>&mdash;C. 66.
</p>

<p>
12:17. <hi rend='sans'>And the dragon was wroth with the woman.</hi>&mdash;The
protesting Church of God. This will apply with great
force shortly.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And went to make war with the remnant of her seed.</hi>&mdash;The
true saints in the Roman Catholic communion or
wherever otherwise found,&mdash;always objects of hatred and
oppression by ecclesiasticism.&mdash;Rev. 13:7.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which keep the commandments of God.</hi>&mdash;<q>The law is fulfilled
in us.</q>&mdash;Rom. 8:4.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And have the testimony of [Jesus Christ] GOD.</hi>&mdash;Have
HIS word as the man of their counsel.&mdash;Rev. 14:12.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='193'/><anchor id='Pg193'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Revelation 13&mdash;The Papal And Protestant Beasts</head>

<p>
13:1. <hi rend='sans'>And [I] HE stood upon the sand of the sea.</hi>&mdash;The
sea represents the masses not under religious restraint.
It is this symbolic sea that is to overturn and swallow up
all kingdoms of earth in the great Time of Trouble. The
proper understanding of the vision is located down at the
edge of this sea, near the Time of Trouble.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url="images/img200a.png" rend="width: 60%">
    <head>Papacy As God Pictures It</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And I saw a beast.</hi>&mdash;<q>This character is very forcibly delineated
even in the names applied to it by the inspired
writers. Paul calls it <q>That Wicked One,</q> <q>The Man of
Sin,</q> <q>The Mystery of Iniquity,</q> <q>The Antichrist,</q> and <q>The
Son of Perdition;</q> the Prophet Daniel calls it <q>The Abomination
that maketh desolate</q> (Dan. 11:31; 12:11); and
our Lord refers to the same character as <q>The Abomination
of Desolation, spoken of by Daniel the Prophet</q> (Matt.
24:15). This same character was also prefigured by a
little horn, or power, out of a terrible beast that Daniel
saw in his prophetic vision, which had eyes, and a mouth
that spoke great things, and which prospered and made
war with the saints, and prevailed against them. (Dan.
7:8, 21.) John also saw and warned the Church against
this character, saying, <q>Ye have heard that Antichrist shall
come.</q> He then advises how to escape Antichrist's influence.
(1 John 2:18-27.) These various appellations and
brief descriptions indicate a base, subtle, hypocritical, deceptive,
tyrannical and cruel character, developed in the
midst of the Christian Church; claiming, to the last, peculiar
sanctity and authority and power from God.</q> (B. 271.)
<q>We need not look long to find a character fitting all the
requirements perfectly. But when we state that the one
and only system whose history fits these prophecies is
Papacy, let no one misunderstand us to mean that every
Roman Catholic is a man of sin. Popes, bishops and
others are at most only parts or members of the Antichrist
system, even as all of the Royal Priests are only members
of the true Christ.</q> (B. 277.) Antichrist now finds its expression
in the <q>Christian</q> governments of the world
founded upon its teachings&mdash;Christendom.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Rise up out of the sea.</hi>&mdash;See Rev. 17:15; Psa. 65:7; 93:3,
4; Isa. 57:20. At the time of papacy's birth the masses of
the Roman people had ceased to have reverence for the
<pb n='194'/><anchor id='Pg194'/>
ancient mythology of Pagan Rome. Constantine, a shrewd
politician, discerned this and discerned the growing influence
of the Christian religion. In adopting it, in forcing
the adoption of the Nicene Creed, and in removing his
capital from Rome, he gave the papacy its start.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Having TEN HORNS AND seven heads [and ten horns].</hi>&mdash;See
Rev. 12:3; Dan. 7:7, 20; Rev. 17:3, 9-12; 5:6; 1 Sam.
2:10; Deut. 33:17; 1 Ki. 22:11.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And upon his horns ten crowns.</hi>&mdash;In this calculation are
included the three potential races plucked up to make way
for the papacy. (Rev. 12:3; 17:3, 9.) In this picture the
location of the crowns upon the horns instead of upon the
heads, as in Rev. 12:3, denotes the changed situation after
the papacy came into control. The papacy ruled not directly,
as did Pagan Rome, but through other powers to
which it was joined.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And upon his heads.</hi>&mdash;The seven kingdoms that still survive:
Spain, Portugal, France, England, Germany, Austria,
Greece, and their past and present dependencies.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The name of blasphemy.</hi>&mdash;Every one of these kingdoms
falsely claims, or has claimed, to be a part of the Kingdom
of God, though actually all part of the one great kingdom
ruled by <q>The god of this world.</q>&mdash;2 Cor. 4:4.
</p>

<p>
13:2. <hi rend='sans'>And the beast which I saw was like unto a leopard.</hi>&mdash;<q>The
body of the Papal beast was like a Leopard.
The Leopard was the third beast seen by Daniel, viz.,
Grecia. Greece was noted as the center of learning, piety
and wisdom (Acts 17:23); so Papacy's chief claim, to be
the ruler of all kingdoms, is based on the claim that it
is the center of wisdom, learning and piety. Other peculiarities
of the Leopard are its activity, vigilance and secretiveness;
so with Papacy. Again, a Leopard is spotted
irregularly, so too Papacy's policy in various parts of the
earth.</q> (Z. '79-12-2.) <q>In one place it is liberal, almost white
in its professions or appearances; in another quarter black,
corrupt, degrading, brutal; and in still other places it has
various neutral and tawny shades of correspondence to the
natural depravity of the people it rules with its rod of
eternal torment and its staff of Purgatory. In Spain, for
example, which has been for centuries one of its dark
spots&mdash;as dark as the general civilization of the people
will permit,&mdash;the <q>leopard</q> has been accustomed to have
its way, and is incensed that freedom of worship, or even
of thought, should be dreamed of.</q>&mdash;Z. '99-262.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And his feet were as the feet of a bear.</hi>&mdash;<q>The bear suggests
another of Papacy's peculiarities as an empire, viz.,
persistency. Like the Bear Empire (Medo-Persia) which
would besiege for years, and even turn a river aside to
<pb n='195'/><anchor id='Pg195'/>
accomplish its ends; so Papacy moves cautiously and gets
possession of kingdoms rather by strategy than by battles.
The bear hugs its prey to death with its paws.</q>&mdash;Z. '79-12-2.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And his mouth as the mouth of [a lion] LIONS.</hi>&mdash;<q>Babylon
was celebrated for its splendor and pride&mdash;the Lion the
king or ruler of all beasts&mdash;so Papacy had a mouth of
this sort, i. e., it claimed to be the kingdom over all kingdoms
by Divine right, the kingdom of God, which was to
break in pieces and consume all others&mdash;a strong mouth.</q>&mdash;Z. '79-12-2.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the dragon.</hi>&mdash;Imperial Rome, represented by Constantine.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Gave him his power.</hi>&mdash;<q>Ancient Pagan Rome had only a
mere skeleton of sacerdotal power as compared with the
complex and elaborate machinery and contrivances of
doctrine and practice of Papal Rome, the triumphant successor
to their scheme, who now, after centuries of cunning
and skill, has its power so intrenched that even
today, when its power is outwardly broken and it is shorn
of civil dominion, it rules the world and controls kingdoms
secretly, under cover, more thoroughly than the Roman
emperors ever ruled the kings subordinate to them.</q>&mdash;B. 288.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And his seat.</hi>&mdash;His place in the city of Rome, by transferring
his own headquarters to Byzantium, <q>New Rome.</q>&mdash;Rev.
12:4.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And great authority.</hi>&mdash;At the hands of the Roman Emperor
Justinian, in A. D. 539.&mdash;Rev. 12:3-5.
</p>

<p>
13:3. <hi rend='sans'>And I saw one of his heads.</hi>&mdash;One of the dragon's
heads&mdash;Papacy.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>As it were wounded to death.</hi>&mdash;Whenever the Scriptures
use the expression <q>as it were</q> (as in Rev. 9:7, 9) what
seems or appears is not actually the case.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And his deadly wound was healed.</hi>&mdash;<q rend='pre'>At the Diet of
Augsburg, in 1555, the Religious Peace was concluded.
Every prince was to be allowed to choose between the
Catholic religion and the Augsburg Confession [of the
Reformers]; and the religion of the prince was to be that
of the land over which he reigned: that is, each government
was to choose the creed for its subjects.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>In fact, the political circumstances of the time, combined
with the fact that even the leaders of the reform
were only beginning to get awake to some of the moral
and a few of the doctrinal errors of Papacy, lead us to
wonder at the rapid strides taken toward the right, rather
than to harshly condemn them for not making the cleansing
more thorough. But when the Protestant churches
<pb n='196'/><anchor id='Pg196'/>
united with the state, progress and reform came to a
standstill. Soon creeds were formed which were almost
as unyielding and opposed to growth in knowledge as the
decrees of Rome.</q>&mdash;C. 111.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And all the [world] EARTH wondered after the beast.</hi>&mdash;The
reference is to the symbolic earth, the people, obedient
to the ruling powers.&mdash;Rev. 17:8.
</p>

<p>
13:4. <hi rend='sans'>And they worshipped the dragon.</hi>&mdash;<q>Dragon means
civil power, Pagan Rome.</q>&mdash;Z. '79-12-2.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[Which] BECAUSE HE gave THE power unto the beast.</hi>&mdash;<q>The
people respected the civil power all the more because
it had so honored ecclesiastical authority. The various
kingdoms (horns) soon learned that their hold over the
people was strengthened rather than weakened by allegiance
to Papacy, for Papacy in turn recognized them,
and commanded the people to recognize those despots as
of divine appointment. Thus it is, that to this day, the
rulers of Europe claim to rule by Divine right and appointment,
and their children after them, no matter how
incompetent. For the same reason the Protestant churches
of Europe, to gain national favor, protection and assistance,
became State churches, and they, as Papacy did,
recognize the reigning families as possessed of Divine
title to the office and rulership of the people. God's Word,
on the contrary, denounces all the governments of earth
as beastly, selfish, oppressive, and recognizes only one
Kingdom as being of God's appointment, viz., the Kingdom
soon to be established in all the earth&mdash;Christ and His
saints in glory. (Dan. 7:27; Rev. 11:15; 2 Tim. 2:12.) It
is in that Kingdom only that the saints have their citizenship,
it alone they recognize, and for it pray <q>Thy Kingdom
come.</q></q>&mdash;Z. '80-1-1.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And they worshipped the beast.</hi>&mdash;<q>The following,
called The Adoration, is still a part of the ceremony connected
with the installation of a new pope: <q>The pope is
lifted up by the cardinals and placed by them upon the
altar-throne. One of the bishops kneels, and the singing
of <hi rend='italic'>Te Deum</hi> [We praise thee, O God] begins. Meantime
the cardinals kiss the feet and hands and face of the pope.</q>
A coin representing this ceremony, struck in the Papal
mint, bears the words, <q>Whom they create, they adore.</q></q>&mdash;B. 316.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Saying, Who is like unto the beast.</hi>&mdash;What other character
in history ever made such claims or received such
homage?&mdash;Rev. 18:18.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>AND who is able to make war with him.</hi>&mdash;<q>When, in
A. D. 455, the city of Rome was invaded and plundered
by the Vandals, and all around was distress and desolation,
<pb n='197'/><anchor id='Pg197'/>
Leo, the bishop of Rome, improved the opportunity
for impressing upon all, both barbarians and Romans, his
claim of spiritual power. To the rude and superstitious
barbarians, already greatly impressed by what they saw
about them, of Rome's greatness and wealth, Leo, arrayed
in his pontifical robes, exclaimed: <q>Beware! I am the successor
of St. Peter, to whom God has given the keys of
the Kingdom of Heaven and against whose church the
gates of hell cannot prevail; I am the living representative
of divine power on the earth; I am Cæsar, a Christian
Cæsar, ruling in love, to whom all Christians owe allegiance;
I hold in my hands the curses of hell and the
benedictions of Heaven; I absolve all subjects from allegiance
to kings; I give and take away, by divine right, all
thrones and principalities of Christendom. Beware how
you desecrate the patrimony given me by your invisible
king; yea, bow down your necks to me and pray that the
anger of God may be averted.</q></q>&mdash;B. 295.
</p>

<p>
13:5. <hi rend='sans'>And there was given unto him a mouth.</hi>&mdash;The
mouth of Antichrist is one of its leading characteristics.&mdash;B. 305;
Dan. 7:8, 11, 25.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Speaking great things and blasphemies.</hi>&mdash;<q>How evident
it must be to the simplest minds that Papacy's great
swelling words and boastful claims have, one and all, been
blasphemies. The establishment of a counterfeit Kingdom
of God was a libel upon God's government, a gross
blasphemy, and a misrepresentation of His character and
Plan and Word. God's character, i. e., His <q>name,</q> was
blasphemed in the thousand monstrous edicts, bulls and
decretals issued in His name, by the long line of those
who claimed, as vice-gerents, to represent His Son by the
titles, appropriate only to the Father or to Christ, which
they have applied to themselves; and God's Tabernacle,
the true Church, was blasphemed by the false system
which claimed to take its place.</q>&mdash;B. 306; Dan. 7:8, 20, 25.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And [power] IT was given unto him to [continue] DO
WHAT HE WILL.</hi>&mdash;He still continues, though he can no
longer do what he will.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Forty and two months.</hi>&mdash;1260 days, or a time, times and
a half; fulfilled in 1260 literal years from A. D. 539 to 1799
A. D. (Rev. 11:2.) As a secondary fulfilment, we may
see the end of the rule of the Kaiser and others of his
mouthpieces in 42 literal months from Aug. 1, 1914. But
what folly it would be to try to see in the German Kaiser,
or any other <emph>one man</emph>, the foretold Antichrist.&mdash;Rev. 11:11.
</p>

<p>
13:6. <hi rend='sans'>And he opened his mouth in [blasphemy] BLASPHEMIES
against God.</hi>&mdash;Misrepresentations of the Divine
Character and Plan.
</p>

<pb n='198'/><anchor id='Pg198'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To blaspheme [His name] HIM.</hi>&mdash;God was blasphemed,
or misrepresented by the titles used by the popes, by
their claims to the exercise of Divine power on earth
(B. 311), by claims that the Pope is God on earth (B. 314), by
claims that he is the sole judge of right and wrong (B. 317),
by claims that he is infallible (B. 318), by proscribing the
Bible (B. 319), by the doctrines of eternal torture and purgatory
(B. 323), by masses for the dead and the sale of
indulgences (B. 324), and by devilish practices against His
saints, too numerous to name.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And His tabernacle.</hi>&mdash;The church in the wilderness.&mdash;Rev.
12:6, 14.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[And] Them that dwell in heaven.</hi>&mdash;God's Tabernacle is
His true Church in the flesh, but, nevertheless, <q>Our citizenship
is in Heaven.</q> (Phil. 3:20, R. V.) Even here
we have been made to <q>Sit together in heavenly places
in Christ Jesus.</q>&mdash;Eph. 2:6.
</p>

<p>
13:7. <hi rend='sans'>And it was given unto him to make war with the
saints.</hi>&mdash;See Rev. 2:20; Acts 9:32; Rom. 15:25; 1 Cor. 6:1.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And to overcome them.</hi>&mdash;See Rev. 6:8; Dan. 7:21, 22.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And power was given him over all kindreds, AND PEOPLES,
and tongues, and nations.</hi>&mdash;This has been literally
fulfilled, but will have a secondary fulfilment soon, through
the beastly governments that are Papacy's living representatives
in spirit if not in fact.&mdash;Rev. 17:15.
</p>

<p>
13:8. <hi rend='sans'>And all that dwell upon the earth shall worship
him.</hi>&mdash;Yield either willing or forced obedience to his mandates;
bow the knee in submission.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Whose names are not written in the Book of Life.</hi>&mdash;<q>The
deception of Papacy was so complete that the world was
deceived, and all the church, except the overcomers, whose
names were <q>written in Heaven,</q> were deceived in the same
way, and hastened to unite themselves with, and to worship
the Beast, and have it enroll their names on its
books. From this has sprung the delusion so common
to all Protestants at this day, viz., that their names must
be connected with some such earthly system, or they are
not the Lord's saints. But the important item is, to have
our names recorded in the Lamb's Book of Life; His is
the only record of any value.</q>&mdash;Z. '80:1-1; Psa. 69:28; Dan.
12:1; Lu. 10:20; Phil. 4:3; Rev. 3:5; 21:27.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the Lamb slain from the foundation of the world.</hi>&mdash;<q>This
selection of the Only Begotten to be the Head and
Chief of the New Creation&mdash;subject to the trials, disciplines,
humiliations and other necessary experiences to
prove His worthiness&mdash;had already been determined upon
in the Divine counsel before man was created.</q>&mdash;F. 65; 1
Pet. 1:20; Eph. 1:4; Rev. 5:6; John 1:29, 36; Acts 8:32.
</p>

<pb n='199'/><anchor id='Pg199'/>

<p>
13:9. <hi rend='sans'>If any man have an ear, let him hear.</hi>&mdash;<q>Only those
whose ears have been circumcised&mdash;those who had come
to a considerable knowledge of God's Word and who had
the hearing of faith&mdash;to respect Him and His Word, despite
the magnificence, success and power of error, would be
able to receive the foregoing statements concerning those
who were deceived by Papacy.</q>&mdash;Z. '80-1-1.
</p>

<p>
13:10. <hi rend='sans'>[He that] IF ANY ONE leadeth into captivity
[shall go] HE GOETH into captivity.</hi>&mdash;<q>The Papal system
was one of bondage. All who acknowledge its claims must
of necessity render implicit obedience, as unto God; for
it claimed to be the kingdom of heaven; and its head,
the Pope, to be God's vice-gerent; consequently those who
were for, or in favor of such captivity of individual
thought, and who would acknowledge the right of that
Papal system to limit and define the faith of all, by consenting,
became captives.</q>&mdash;Z. '80-1-2.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>He that killeth with the sword must be killed by the
sword.</hi>&mdash;<q>There were some who asserted that Papacy was
a usurpation of the titles and power of the true Head and
Ruler of the Church, and claimed their rights to the individual
liberty wherewith Christ had made them free.
Such used the <q>Sword of the Spirit,</q> which is the Word of
God, in defense of their liberty, and such were put to
death by Papacy; it overcame the saints during its 1260
years of power.</q>&mdash;Z. '80-1-2.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Here is the patience and the faith of the saints.</hi>&mdash;<q>This
was a severe test of true saintship&mdash;Would they go into
captivity and join in the usurper's ranks, or would they
remain faithful to the true King and wait for the Kingdom
which He promised to establish? Those whose names
were written in Heaven stuck to the Word, and sealed
their testimonies by death.</q> (Z. '80-1-2.) The same situation
now confronts the saints, in the matter of aiding in
some way the murderous spirit of the governments which
are permeated by Antichrist's spirit.&mdash;Rev. 14:12.
</p>

<p>
13:11. <hi rend='sans'>And I beheld another beast.</hi>&mdash;<q rend='pre'>If the preceding
wild beast represented an ecclesiastical power, as we have
just seen, then this beast called another should be understood
to represent a similar ecclesiastical or church power.
As the first beast had ten horns, or powers, which gave it
their strength, so this beast has <q>two horns</q> which indicates
that two powers or governments will support it.
Again, notice that this beast <q>ascended (came gradually)
out of the earth,</q> while the first came out of the sea.
Now, if our definitions be correct&mdash;as the coming of
Papacy from among the irreligious masses of the Roman
Empire was shown by its coming out of the <q>sea</q>&mdash;then
<pb n='200'/><anchor id='Pg200'/>
the coming of this second beast out of the <q>earth</q> should
signify that it sprung up among a professedly religious
people. The Two-horned Beast is one ecclesiastical system,
and the two horns show that it is supported, and its
authority recognized by two kingdoms. Remember that to
be simply aided or supported by the empire does not
make a symbolic <q>Beast</q>; a <q>Beast</q> is a government, and
to become a symbolic beast, a church must needs become
an element in, or part of the government.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>There is but one church which this symbol fits perfectly,
viz.: The established <q>Church of England and Ireland.</q>
This system, like the Papal, was a blending of
church and state, an ecclesiastical empire. In the year
1200 England became subject to the Pope. In 1531, owing
to a dispute between her king, Henry VIII, and the Pope,
England withdrew from allegiance to Papacy. The Convocation
of its clergy called the same year, in its decrees,
declared King Henry VIII to be <q>The one protector of the
English Church, its only and Supreme Lord; and as far as
might be, by the law of Christ, its Supreme Head.</q> Those
are the exact sentiments of Papacy; that is exactly the
sense in which the Pope is recognized as Christ's vice-gerent.
What a glorious representation of the Lord Jesus
they had in Henry VIII, who, out of six wives, was divorced
from two, beheaded two, and by many is supposed to have
poisoned one! He was a worthy rival of some of the
Popes as an Anti-christian claimant of headship to the
church. The Clerical Convocation which could acknowledge
such a head was not far from being as corrupt as
Papacy.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>The proof that the title, <q>head of the church,</q> was not
an empty honor, appears from the historian's words&mdash;<q>At
the same time it was ordained that no regard should be
paid to censures which the Pope might pass on account
of this law and that Mass should be said, and sacraments
administered as usual. In 1534, all payments made to the
apostolic chamber, and dispensations, were abolished;
monasteries were subjected to royal government, and exempted
from all other; the right to summon Convocations,
approve or reject canons (laws or doctrines enacted by
the Convocation of clergy), and hear appeals from the
Bishops, was vested in the King alone. These matters
are but imperfectly understood by people in general, and
the same titles&mdash;<q>Supreme head of the church on earth,</q>
etc., are still applied to English sovereigns. It is needless
to remark that the Lord Jesus never gave this office to
any one, but claims it Himself; and any others who claim
it are usurpers. Paul said: <q>Christ is the Head of the
<pb n='201'/><anchor id='Pg201'/>
Church,</q> and that we are to <q>grow up into Him in all things,
which is the Head, even Christ.</q> Again he repeats that
<q>God gave Him to be the Head over all things in the
Church, which is His body.</q> (Eph. 1:22 and 4:15, and
5:23; Col. 1:18.) It is the church on earth that Paul is
speaking of, hence any Pope, Queen, Council, Assembly,
Conference, or any other man or company of men, who
claim or exercise the powers of the true Head&mdash;Jesus&mdash;are
opposing Him. And all who support such by influence,
presence or money, are abettors of evil and supporters
of false systems. Now does this system (the
English church) fill the picture? The second Beast had
two horns; what two kingdoms (horns) supported this
church? Bear in mind the distinction between a church
supported by a government, as the Presbyterian in Scotland,
and a church united in the government, as in England;
it is the latter relationship that constitutes a
<q>beast.</q></q></q>&mdash;Z. '80-1-2; Rev. 13:14, 15; 14:9, 11; 15:2; 16:2, 13.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Coming up out of the earth.</hi>&mdash;<q>From the visible church of
God.</q>&mdash;Cook.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And he had two horns like a lamb.</hi>&mdash;<q>Now about the two
horns. England, of course, was one of them, and Ireland
the other. Let us see. History says that in 1537 the Irish
Parliament in Dublin <q>passed the Act of Supremacy, declaring
Henry VIII Supreme Head of the Church, prohibiting
intercourse with the court of Rome, and making
it treason to refuse the oath of supremacy.</q> <q>Henry VIII
also took the title of King of Ireland.</q> Thus it is seen that
the second horn came up within the brief space of five
years after the first. The fact that Ireland was not a
powerful horn matters not, for it was stronger than some
that supported the Papal Beast. What effects result from
the disestablishment of the Church in Ireland? From 1538
to 1871 (333 years), the title of the church was <q>The
Church of England and Ireland,</q> thus recognizing both
<q>horns.</q> On January 1, 1871 (by action of Parliament and
the consent of the Queen, the head of the church) the
Irish church was disestablished, or that horn was cast off.
So, too, all of the horns which once supported Papacy
have broken off from her; the difference being that in
the case of Papacy the horns have turned against her,
and in the case of the second Beast it casts off the Irish
horn of itself, believing it to be a weakness rather than a
strength. And it would not be at all remarkable if the
other horn (England) would be separated from this Beast.
<q>The two horns like a lamb,</q> would seem to indicate that
this Beast would be peaceably inclined&mdash;not aggressive,
but merely using the horns for defense.</q>&mdash;Z. '80-1-2.
</p>

<pb n='202'/><anchor id='Pg202'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And, he spake as a dragon.</hi>&mdash;<q><q>He spake like a dragon.</q>
Notice, it is not said he spake like <emph>the</emph> dragon, but like <emph>a</emph>
dragon. We understand this to mean that its utterances
resembled those of a purely civil (dragon) power, and that
in its words there would be little to denote that it is an
ecclesiastical government.</q> (Z. '80-1-2.) England's conduct
in forcing opium into China is evidence enough of its
Satanic character. <q>China realizes that opium is her great
curse; she has passed laws against the growth of the
poppy and the manufacture of opium. But she finds that
the imports of opium amount to 5,000,000 pounds per year.
She cries out again, as in the past, that this Great Kingdom
of Christ (?) (Great Britain) will have mercy upon
her and cease to insist on this curse being introduced to
blight China morally and physically. The young men of
heathen China have started a monster petition for the
cessation of opium importation. The text of this appeal
appeared in the <hi rend='italic'>New York Herald</hi>, February 17. It recounts
that a previous appeal, of similar character, was
made without avail to the King's royal grandmother in
1858, when she was the representative of this branch of
Christ's Kingdom (?).</q> (Z. '11-115.) <q>The False Prophet
who causes the dwellers on earth to worship the Beast
symbolizes the deification of the world and of the world
power, throughout the conflict between the church and
Antichrist.</q>&mdash;Cook.
</p>

<p>
13:12. <hi rend='sans'>And he exerciseth all the power of the first beast
before him.</hi>&mdash;<q>And the authority of the first Wild Beast&mdash;the
whole of that authority&mdash;he exercises in his presence,
and he causes the earth and its inhabitants to worship
the first Wild Beast.</q> (Weym.) <q>This shows that the
second does not take the place of the first beast, but that
they exist contemporaneously.</q> (Z. '80-1-2.) It also shows
that the sufferings of the last members of the Body of
Christ, under the combination of governments dominated
by Great Britain, may be expected to be as great as in
Papacy's palmiest days.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And causeth the earth and them which dwell therein.</hi>&mdash;<q>We
make a distinction between the earth and those who
dwell on it. As the earth symbolizes those obedient to
and supporting the Beast, so <q>those dwelling on the earth,</q>
we understand to mean independent Christians who do
not support either of these systems.</q>&mdash;Z. '80-1-2.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To worship the first beast, whose deadly wound was
healed.</hi>&mdash;<q rend='pre'>The Church of England claimed all the powers
and authority which Papacy claimed. It claimed to be the
Church; it acknowledged and repudiated some of the corruptions
complained of by the Reformers, such as the
<pb n='203'/><anchor id='Pg203'/>
sale of indulgence, transubstantiation, etc., and abandoned
these as well as the name Roman, for which they substituted
the word Holy, calling it the original <q>Holy Catholic
Church.</q> It claims the same governmental authority and
the same veneration for its decrees as Papacy does for
hers. And by establishing a similar system, devoid of
some of the grosser Papal errors, it attracted the attention
of all to those errors, as being the only possible fault of
Papacy. And when some of those errors were shortly
after discarded by Papacy, the inference was that both
Beast systems were right. People at that day, as now,
seemed to think those systems proper and right, if their
powers, etc., were properly exercised; but from God's
standpoint the systems are abominations, and wrong from
the very center. These systems are based upon errors,
and like a corrupt tree, <q>cannot bring forth good fruit.</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q>The principal error was in this&mdash;the very basis of those
systems&mdash;their claim to be the <q>Kingdom of God</q> in reigning
power. That idea, once admitted, justifies their persecution
of individuals and nations, forcing them to submit
and bow in obedience. Scripture accords these powers to
the <q>Kingdom of God</q>&mdash;when <q>the Kingdom is the Lord's
and He is the Governor among the nations; all the ends
of the world shall remember and turn unto the Lord, and
all the kindreds of nations shall worship before Thee.</q>
(Ps. 22:27, 28.) He shall <q>dash them in pieces as a potter's
vessel.</q> (Ps. 2:9.) Unto Him every knee shall bow,
and every tongue confess. (Phil. 2:11.) And if their claim
be good, who can object to their carrying out the Scriptural
statements? These Antichrists, to make their claim
of kingdom power appear true, had simply to take another,
viz., to compel obedience, backing up their right to do so
by the Scriptures just quoted. And not only was this great
evil sanctioned, but their claim, once admitted, that the
Kingdom was established and the reign in progress, those
who admitted it were hindered from looking for the true
Head of the Church to set up the true Kingdom under the
whole heavens, which shall break in pieces present imperfect
governments, establish righteousness in the earth,
and cause every knee to bow and every tongue to confess,
to the glory of God.</q>&mdash;Z. '80-1-2.
</p>

<p>
13:13. <hi rend='sans'>And he doeth great wonders.</hi>&mdash;The strongest text
of Scripture forewarning against the impending Church
Federation is the strongest text of Scripture forewarning
against spiritism. (Isa. 8:9-22.) It is not by accident that
these warnings are placed together. <q>We shall not be at
all surprised if some later manifestation of the powers
of darkness, transformed to appear as the angels of light
<pb n='204'/><anchor id='Pg204'/>
and progress, shall be much more specious and delusive
than anything yet attempted. We do well to remember
the Apostle's words,&mdash;<q>We wrestle not with flesh and
blood, but with princely powers of darkness, with the
spiritual things of the Evil One.</q> (Eph. 6:12.) In 1842,
six years before <q>modern Spiritism</q> began to operate,
Edward Bickersteth, a servant of God and student of His
Word, wrote,&mdash;<q>Looking at the signs of the times, and the
long neglect and unnatural denial of all angelic ministration
or spiritual influence, and at the express predictions
of false Christs, and false prophets, who shall show signs
and wonders, insomuch that if it were possible they should
deceive the Very Elect, and that when men receive not the
love of the truth that they might be saved, for this cause
God shall send them strong delusion, that they shall believe
a lie; I cannot but think there is a painful prospect
of a sudden recoil and religious revulsion from the present
unbelief and misbelief, to an unnatural and undistinguishing
credulity.</q> Satan is the inspirer and supporter of
every Antichrist; and as he led those who had pleasure
in error rather than the truth to the organization of the
great Antichrist, Papacy, symbolically the <q>beast</q> of Rev.
13, and as he is now operating to produce a Protestant
<q>image of the beast</q> with life, which will cooperate with
the chief Antichrist, so in combination with these will be
the powers of darkness, the powers of the air, the lying
and seducing spirits, operating in some manner or in a
variety of ways,&mdash;Spiritism, Christian Science, New
Thought, Theosophy, Hypnotism, etc.</q> (S. 32.) <q>If we gain
the right conception of the matter these deceptions are to
affect the whole world, including its wise men, and indeed
practically everybody.</q>&mdash;Z. '09-123; Deut. 13:1-3; Matt. 24:24,
25; 2 Thes. 2:9-12; Rev. 16:14.
</p>

<p>
Note the readiness of Christendom to fall into the trap:
<q>In a sermon in which he told of the effect of religious
seances and the efforts of certain writers to shatter belief
in a future life, the Rev. H. D. C. Maclachlan preached to
a large congregation in Seventh Street Christian Church
on <q>The New Spiritualism,</q> in which he gave scientific proof
of a future life and exhorted his hearers to be of good
cheer and continue to hope. Mr. Maclachlan spoke in part
as follows: <q>There has been no more remarkable change
in public opinion than that witnessed within the last few
years with regard to that class of facts known as spiritualistic.
There was a time when it was not quite respectable
to believe in them, but quite recently there has
been a change. Ghosts have become respectable; planchette
and table rapping are parlor amusements; the
<pb n='205'/><anchor id='Pg205'/>
popular magazines vie with each other in saying nice
things about mediums and their ways. The cause of this
change in public opinion has been a similar change in
scientific belief. It is not more than thirty years ago
that orthodox science refused so much as to investigate
the things of which we are speaking. Some twenty-five
years ago the Society for Psychical Research was formed
in England with such names as Crookes, Myers, Romanes,
Eidgwick, Barrett and others on its list of members, and
since that day telepathy, table rapping, clairvoyance, clairaudience,
telekinesis, apparitions, materializations, mental
healing and all the other phenomena which Professor
James, of Harvard, aptly calls <emph>residual</emph>, have been investigated.
Mediums have been transferred from back parlors,
where all sorts of trickery was possible, to the physical
laboratories of the universities. They have been put under
conditions of strictest control. Even the traditional darkness
has been denied them. And still the wonderful results
came. One after another leading scientists entered
into these investigations skeptical and contemptuous, but
came out of them believers in the facts on the evidence
of their own senses.</q></q>&mdash;Z. '09-164.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>So that he maketh fire come down from heaven.</hi>&mdash;Fire
from heaven was the test by which Elijah proved that
Jehovah is the true God, and was the method by which
Jehovah accepted the offerings made to Him on the Day of
Atonement. (1 Kings 18:38; Lev. 9:24.) In the test at
hand the second beast will be able to prove to all except
the Elect that his claims to Divine approval are correct.
<q>Our Lord warns us of danger from false Christs <q>then</q>&mdash;that
is now. Had it been foretold precisely what form
these deceptions would take, this would have somewhat
hindered their deceptive power. God permits these deceptions
for the very purpose of separating the <q>overcomers</q>
from all others, and merely guarantees us that the <q>Elect</q>
will be kept from falling. And yet it is quite possible that
some of these trials, siftings and delusions, may come
closest upon those possessing the largest degree of the
light of Present Truth.</q> (D. 581; Rev. 7:3.) <q>The Lord
allows the storms to press us more and more so that we
will cry unto Him. Then He will hear us and give us
the necessary deliverance. These storms may be right
inside, in our own person. Whether, therefore, storms
financial, political, religious or demoniacal, come his way,
the child of God may rest secure and be of good courage.
The Lord is both able and willing to care for his interests
and bring him off victor.</q> (Z. '13-150.) As soon as the
beast has apparently made out a clear case, perhaps by
<pb n='206'/><anchor id='Pg206'/>
outward, visible evidences, but surely by evidences from
the Scriptures (distorted) of its standing with God, we
may expect a very prompt and practical use of the <q>fire</q>
(Luke 9:54) thus obtained. <q>The Image, as soon as vitalized,
will very promptly use its influence, prestige, power,
in every way to punish in the name of the Lord those who
in any sense of the word it shall consider to be its opponents.
Speedily none will be allowed to buy or sell, in the
spiritual marts [or perhaps in any marts], except those
who have either the mark or the number of the Beast, or
of the Image, either in the right hand of co-operation or
in the forehead of public confession. This will mean that
the <hi rend='smallcaps'>International Bible Students Association</hi> and all
others not in affiliation with the Alliance will be subjected
to radically coercive measures. Truth shall fall
in the streets. (Isa. 59:14.) Righteousness will be unable
to enter under the stress of the new order of things. For
a time it will appear as though a great Christian victory
had been won, shared equally by Papacy and Federated-Protestantism&mdash;no
longer protesting.</q>&mdash;Z. '13-343.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>On the earth in the sight of men.</hi>&mdash;Amongst his own followers
and among Christians unattached to either beast.
</p>

<p>
13:14. <hi rend='sans'>And deceiveth them that dwell on the earth.</hi>&mdash;The
independent Christians just named.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>By the means of those miracles.</hi>&mdash;Signs, the laying on of
hands, doctrines of immortality, trinity and claims that
none are qualified to understand the Bible aright except
those consecrated by the imposition of holy orders by the
episcopal succession.&mdash;Z. '80-1-2.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which he had power to do in the sight of the beast.</hi>&mdash;While
the papacy is still alive and active.&mdash;Rev. 19:20.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Saying.</hi>&mdash;By its own example.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To them that dwell on the earth.</hi>&mdash;Independent Christians.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That they should ALSO make an Image to the beast.</hi>&mdash;<q rend='pre'>From
the year 1800 to 1846 was a time in which great numbers
of new sects arose, whereas before that, they were few
and prominent. This gave rise to uneasiness among the older
denominations who wondered whereunto this thing would
lead. As the Bible came to be read more and more by
the masses, occasional individuals would feel free to
preach what they thought it taught, regardless of denominational
creeds and the views of the older sects. As a
consequence, Protestants were fast splitting up into fragments.
They began to say, By what means shall we check
and stop this disposition to individual thought and opinion
relative to the teachings of Scripture? They wanted to
stop the very thing God desired; viz., that each individual
<pb n='207'/><anchor id='Pg207'/>
should be free and independent of restraint, with his faith
based, not on the views of others, not on the decisions of
Councils or Presbyters, nor in the decision of the Pope,
nor in things approved of the head of the English church,
but in the Word of God. The question came: How can
we restrain these preachers? This was a quandary to all
except the Roman and Episcopal churches, since these both
claimed the <q>Apostolic Succession,</q> and that this, by ordination,
conferred upon their ministers special power and
authority to preach and to administer the <q>Sacraments</q>;
hence that no others had a right to do so, but were clerical
pretenders. Other denominations could not claim this continuation
of apostolic power through their preachers, but
simply set them apart by prayer, consequently those of
one denomination could not object that the preachers of
other denominations, as well as all laymen, were not as
truly authorized of God to expound the Scriptures as their
own clergy.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>But the example of the Church of England showed what
a prestige she had by reason of the voice of authority with
which she commanded a reverence for her clergy and her
teachings. This teaching by example was not lost. The
various denominations felt a necessity for some common
Standard of Doctrine which would be supported and upheld
by all of them, and thus give prestige to their teachings,
and bring the combined influence of all against any further
advance in knowledge or the development of any different
phase of truth. Thus they would protect themselves by
being able to say: The combined opinion of all Protestants
is against you; therefore you are heretics, and
therefore we will shun you, and not call you Brethren,
but use all our influence against you. This was done by
the formation of the <q>Evangelical Alliance.</q> It was stated
to be one of the objects of the Alliance (and we believe
the principal one) to <q>Promote between the different Evangelical
denominations, an effective co-operation in the
efforts to repel common enemies and dangers.</q></q>
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url="images/img200b.png" rend="width: 60%">
    <head>Evangelical Alliance&mdash;Church Federation The Image of The Beast</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Do not understand us as opposing the Christians represented
in that Alliance; we are opposed merely to their
attempt to muzzle truth, and to prevent the opening up
of any other truths buried by Papacy than those which
they had received. It is far from our purpose to say that
they intentionally combined against the unfolding of truth,
nor would we say this of Papists. But we do say, that
by their action they were following Papacy's tactics, and
that in that Alliance they did make the Image of the
Beast. It has tended to make a separation clear and distinct
between the Clergy and the Laity.</q>
</p>

<pb n='208'/><anchor id='Pg208'/>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>How much the Image resembles the Papal Beast may
be judged from the fact that Papacy acknowledged the
Image&mdash;owned it as a creditable likeness&mdash;by the Pope
sending <q>Greetings</q> to the last meeting of the Evangelical
Alliance. Strange to say, the delegates to the Alliance
had so far lost sight of the principles and doctrines
which led to the protests against the Papal church (that
it was the Harlot church&mdash;Antichrist&mdash;Man of Sin&mdash;mentioned
in the Scriptures) that they actually felt flattered
by the Pontiff's notice, instead of becoming alarmed and
examining how and why he who is <q>The Chief Antichrist</q>
should feel pleased to greet them as fellows. A prominent
Presbyterian minister present at the above named meeting
mentioned the <q>Pope's Greeting</q> with evident pleasure and
satisfaction to the writer.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>A prominent characteristic of the Beast copied by the
Image is the honoring of a special class, the Clergy, with
special honors and titles. They are known as Revs., Divines,
etc., but Jesus the Divine said: <q>Ye call Me Lord
and Master, and ye say well, for so I am.</q> <q>Be not ye called
Rabbi, neither be ye called Master, for one is your Master,
even Christ, and all ye are brethren.</q> (Matt. 23:8.) These
titles are assumptions fashioned after those of Papacy.
When the various denominations began their existence,
more full of the spirit of Christ, they claimed no such
high-sounding titles. The Reformers were not known as
Rev., D. D., etc., but as John Knox, Martin Luther, etc.
Unpretentious, like Jesus and the Apostles, they were intent
upon serving God, and therefore became the servants
(ministers) of the Church. But now the Clergy are far
from being servants; they are Lords. They have itching
ears, loving the approval of men. As pride and worldliness
have come in, vital godliness and power have gradually
departed. For the very same reason, they are losing
all power to expound the Word of God&mdash;the gift of teaching&mdash;because
<q>God abhorreth the proud, but giveth grace
(favor) to the humble.</q> We find ministers of all denominations
ready to confess their ignorance of the Word. They
appeal, for their information, back to the early reformers,
and thus confess that they have less light than they.
That their light should grow dim, and their spiritual life
become dwarfed, is the natural result of their joining the
Image, and subscribing to creeds made in the fifteenth
century, which, like the shoe of China, will not admit of
any growth. It is a shoe a little larger than Papacy put
upon its followers, but of the same sort.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Papacy established the clerical hierarchy, who lorded
it over God's heritage instead of serving their brethren as
<pb n='209'/><anchor id='Pg209'/>
Jesus explained&mdash;<q>One is your Master; all ye are brethren,</q>
and as Paul said: <q>We are to speak the truth in love
and grow up into Him in all things who is the Head, even
Christ; from whom the whole Body fitly joined together
[not by creeds of men, but by love begotten by the one
Spirit of Truth] and compacted by that which every joint
supplied [every joint is every member, not the clergy only]
maketh increase of the Body unto the edifying of itself in
love,</q> thus coming <q>to the unity of the faith, and of the
knowledge of the Son of God.</q> (Eph. 4:15, 16.) As Papacy
established the priesthood over the church, so Protestantism
has established the same, and there is no opportunity
for the Body to edify itself, every joint taking part. True,
there is a seeming show of liberty at prayer meetings, etc.,
but it is only upon the surface, for the ordained pastor is
to watch zealously lest anything contrary to the teachings
of his church should be expressed, and if so, to silence the
audacious member at once, for the church creed is the
rule, not the Word of God. If this is not sufficient, they
must have a sort of church trial and excommunicate him
(<q>kill him</q>). The trial, by the way, gives evidence of another
likeness to the Beast, namely, the exaltation of the
teachings of the organization above the Word of God, for
all such are tried according to <q>the authorities</q> of their
church.</q>&mdash;Z. '80-1-2.
</p>

<p>
<q>The Alliance endeavored to establish a standard of
orthodoxy. They saw the power of the Papal argument,
that it is the Church, and that all others are heretical.
In this sense it was a copy, or image, of the Papal institution.
It has been merely an Image without life or power
for now more than sixty years.</q> (Z. '13-342.) <q>And he told
the inhabitants of the earth to erect a statue (possibly a
symbol of corrupt public opinion) to the Wild Beast who
had received the sword-stroke and yet had recovered.</q>&mdash;Weym.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which had the wound by a sword, and did live.</hi>&mdash;Which
was smitten by the Sword of the Spirit in the hands of the
reformers, but not persistently enough to kill it. (Heb.
4:12.) <q>It is important to observe that the wound of one
of the heads is here ascribed to the whole beast.</q>&mdash;Cook.
</p>

<p>
13:15. <hi rend='sans'>And he had power to give life.</hi>&mdash;Either <q>apostolic
succession</q> or its effect. <q>It may not be known to many
how much stress was laid upon the <q>apostolic succession,</q>
which was supposed to be a virtue transmitted through
hundreds of years of Papal corruption, by the laying on
of the hands of the Bishop. This, of course, was vested in
the Roman church, and also in the English church on
account of its being at first rather a secession from
<pb n='210'/><anchor id='Pg210'/>
Papacy than a reformation. To many minds; even among
the clergy, there was a veneration for that ceremony, which
neither Papacy nor the English church were averse to promoting.</q>
(Z. '80-1-2.) For the effect of this superstition
on the mind of Wesley, see Rev. 9:1, 2. <q>The Lord's symbolic
prophecy tells us that in the close of this Age the
Image will receive life, vitality, energy, power. No longer
will it stand as a mere Image. It will become as active
as the Beast. Moreover, it will not be antagonistic to the
Beast, but sympathetic, and cause that all shall either
worship the Beast or the Image&mdash;all must be in harmony
either with Catholicism, or with the Protestant Church
Federation as soon as it receives the vitalizing breath.</q>&mdash;Z. '13-343.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Unto the Image of the beast.</hi>&mdash;<q>The vitality of the Image
is to come from the two-horned Beast; the Church of England.
A few years ago the Episcopal Church took an important
step toward vitalizing the Church Federation movement.
That important step was the recognition of the
ministers of the denominations represented in the Evangelical
Alliance. Previously no minister not ordained by
the laying on of hands of a Catholic or an Episcopalian
bishop was allowed to preach from an Episcopalian pulpit.
Perhaps this recognition of the Image is all the vitalization
the Image needs, but we are inclined to expect more. For
years the Episcopalians have proffered reordination to the
ministers of the different denominations represented in
the Evangelical Alliance. And they still proffer it. We
have been inclined to expect that the ministers would
finally concede the point and accept a reordination at
the hands of an Episcopal bishop. But we are not sure
of this. It is possible that, to meet the requirements of
the case, some other way will be found by which the Episcopal
Church will recognize the Church Federation without
obligating the ministers to be reordained. We are
waiting for this.</q> (Z. '13-343.) <q>If the various ministers
of other denominations in considerable numbers accept reordination
as ministers at the hands of Episcopalian Bishops,
the validity of other ordination will be speedily
questioned. The authority of this so-called <q>Apostolic Ordination</q>
will give seeming right of authority, dignity and
power. After the prominent ministers of various denominations
submit themselves to such reordination, the <q>lesser
lights</q> will make a rush for it.</q>&mdash;Z. '10-308.
</p>

<p>
Canon Henson, of Westminster Abbey, has said: <q>The
logical goal of modern tendencies is not toward Disestablishment,
but toward a fuller and worthier Establishment.
Why should not the nation draw into its service all the
<pb n='211'/><anchor id='Pg211'/>
organized Christianity instead of limiting itself to a single
denomination? I rejoice to observe a beginning made in
this direction by recent legislation, which has recognized
for certain civic purposes the status of Nonconformist
clergymen.</q> (Z. '06-6.) The change of name of the <q>Image of
the Beast</q> to that of <q>False Prophet</q> in Rev. 16:13, between
the <emph>sixth</emph> and <emph>seventh</emph> plagues, indicates it was vitalized
prior to the publication of Vol. VII (the 7th plague).
Truly it now <emph>lives</emph>&mdash;in the minds of the clergy&mdash;but it will
grow stronger.
</p>

<p>
The matter is growing in the minds of those interested,
as the following dispatches show: <q>Washington, Dec. 31,
1916.&mdash;In a signed document addressed to the nation,
more than fifty prelates and laymen of various denominations
representing many sections of the country have
united in a warning against what they declare may be a
premature peace in Europe which <q>may bring a curse instead
of a blessing.</q></q> <q>Last winter commissions of all
American Protestant churches met at Garden City, L. I.,
for the first time, and adopted a general platform on which
it recommended that the World Conference on Faith and
Order proceed. Pope Benedict XV. sent a letter to the
commissions, assuring them of his <q>deep interest and prayers.</q></q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Literary
Digest</hi>, January 13, 1917.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That the image of the beast should both speak.</hi>&mdash;Thus far
he has been significantly <q>silent</q> as far as claiming any
real power or authority is concerned; but the time for the
breaking of the silence is near.&mdash;Jer. 8:14-17; Rev. 8:1.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And cause that as many as would not worship the Image
of the beast.</hi>&mdash;<q>Worship of this symbolic beast and his
image is to be the great test or trial upon professing
Christians in every province of symbolic Babylon in the
end of this Age. And we have the same inspired record
as authority for the statement that only those who refuse
to render worship to those powerfully influential religious
systems (symbolized by the beast and his image) will be
counted by the Lord as <q>overcomers</q> and be made His
joint-heirs as members of His elect Church. (Rev. 20:4.)
And there are some the world over who, with a courage
not less than that of Shadrach, Meshach and Abed-nego,
declare publicly that the Lord God alone shall have the
worship and the service which they can render. The
faithful few will be exposed to fiery experiences&mdash;boycotted
socially, boycotted in business, slandered in every conceivable
manner, and often by those of whom they least expect
it, who, according to the Lord's declaration, will say
<q>all manner of evil against them falsely.</q> (Matt. 5:11,12.)</q>&mdash;Z. '99-170.
</p>

<pb n='212'/><anchor id='Pg212'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Should be killed.</hi>&mdash;<q>Soon we shall have their <q>Union</q> or
<q>Confederacy</q> (Isa. 8:12), and the bitter fruits of Union in
error will speedily manifest themselves in tyranny, as
during the Dark Ages.</q> (Z. '04-212.) <q>To us the Scriptures
indicate that the prosperity of the Federated Protestant
<q>Image</q> will for a little time be so great, so pronounced,
and its arrogance become so great that the sympathy of
the masses will be entirely alienated and turned into bitterness.</q>
(Z. '10-309). It may be objected that the Church
would have no part in the killing of their fellow worshippers,
but ecclesiastics themselves have a better understanding
of the ecclesiastical mind and ecclesiastical conscience.
The following is from the pen of Rt. Rev. Chas. D. Williams,
Protestant Episcopal Bishop of Michigan:
</p>

<p>
<q>It is an appalling thought that the Church should have
had a part in the crime of Calvary, and yet it did, and
that the chief part. The ecclesiastical mind is a closed
mind&mdash;and there is nothing it resents so much as being
pried open to receive a new idea. Its settled rule of judgment,
its accepted test of truth, is, <q>What is new is never
true, and what is true is never new.</q> The other characteristic
of a perverted religion is the ecclesiastical conscience.
It is strikingly illustrated by one Good Friday
scene. A procession is sweeping through the streets of
Jerusalem, bound for the Governor's Palace. Who compose
this procession? They are the religious leaders of
the people the prominent divines, the chief ecclesiastics.
What is the business they have in mind? They are intent
on committing the greatest crime in history. But at Pilate's
threshold they stop. Why? Ah, they have stumbled
across a canon of the Church. If they should enter a
heathen house that Passover morning, they would become
ceremonially defiled and unfit to partake of the sacrament.</q>
(Z. '15-339.) <q>In 1526 Prof. Tyndale, having prepared his
MS., published it in Germany, because of the opposition
of the English clergy. He imported his New Testaments
into London, in whose shops the people began to purchase
them. At this same time the Germans were learning
something of the New Testament and its different teachings,
from Luther and his associates. The Church of
England bishops forthwith bought up the entire edition in
the shops, and publicly burnt them in front of St Paul's
Cathedral, London. They knew that the eighteen Ecumenical
Councils had declared to be true Christian faith
many things not taught in the Bible, and had omitted many
things that are taught therein. They feared that the people,
becoming Bible students, would know of these things,
and thus would be upset the general belief based in the
<pb n='213'/><anchor id='Pg213'/>
creeds&mdash;and not in the Bible. Then, too, they warned the
people against putting any construction upon the Bible
that would make it different from the teaching of the so-called
<q>Apostolic Bishops</q> in the creeds&mdash;threatening them
with eternal torment. As it was, Tyndale and some of the
others interested in the Bible suffered martyrdom, as enemies
of the <q>Apostolic Bishops,</q> and their creeds and institutions.</q>&mdash;Z. '15-253.
Are the clergy divinely ordained?
</p>

<p>
13:16. <hi rend='sans'>And he causeth all, both small and great.</hi>&mdash;<q>The
great feast which preceded the fall of Babylon would seem
to correspond well with the great denominational union
expected soon, and the season of rejoicing which will
accompany it. The gold and silver vessels of the Lord's
house which were profaned may fitly represent not only
the precious truths of Divine Revelation, but also the
Lord's consecrated people&mdash;the golden vessels representing
the Little Flock, and the more numerous silver vessels
representing the <q>Great Company.</q> What may be the
character of the defilement and injury of these is of
course problematical; but in any case we remember that
those consecrated vessels were all highly honored, and
restored to the Temple by Cyrus, and likewise we know
that not only the truths of Divine Revelation will all be
cared for by our Lord, but also that all that are His shall
be glorified in the spiritual Temple which He will rear
shortly.</q>&mdash;Z. '99-175.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[Rich and] Poor AND RICH.</hi>&mdash;<q>So popular will Federated
Churchianity become that to even criticize it will be a
<q>crime</q> worthy of crucifixion in some form&mdash;socially and
financially, if not physically. Politicians will quickly realize
that their bread is buttered on that side, and be ready
to enact legislation of any kind desired by the Federation.
Mammon-worship will take on new forms temporarily, but
power will soon debauch the unregenerate mass and drive
out the regenerate faithful who may temporarily be misled
by the great <q>Union</q> movement in the name of Christ, but
without His Spirit or authority.</q>&mdash;Z. '06-6.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Free and bond.</hi>&mdash;<q>It is altogether possible, indeed probable
we think, that John's course which brought him into
conflict with Herod was in some degree typical of the
course of the Gospel Church in this present time; and of
the course of events that may be expected. If it be a
type, Herod would represent civil government, and the
unlawful wife would represent the nominal church, which
throughout the symbolic Scriptures is represented as a
woman, Jezebel, etc. Should it prove to be a type by its
fulfilment in antitype, the fulfilment will probably be on
something like the following lines: (1) A partial reunion
<pb n='214'/><anchor id='Pg214'/>
of Church and State. [This has now been accomplished
by the Alliance of the United States with Great Britain.]
(2) In such case it would become the duty of the true
Church, the forerunners and announcers of the Messianic
Kingdom, to reprove the civil powers as well as the
nominal church systems, and to declare their union unlawful&mdash;contrary
to the Word of God. (3) The effect of
this would pretty surely be to awaken the animosity of
both civil and religious powers; but it would draw out
specially the animosity and venom of the latter. (4) The
church nominal, in her false position would be anxious
to stifle the reproofs and to destroy the reprovers, and the
effect would be that the civil power would be induced to
pass such legislation as would restrain the liberty of the
faithful ones and hinder them from public utterances;&mdash;as
John was hindered by imprisonment. (5) Herodias' daughter
(united Protestantism) will become the tool for the
destruction of the most loyal servants of God.</q>&mdash;Z. '98-95.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To [receive] GIVE HIM a mark in their right hand or in
their [foreheads] FOREHEAD.</hi>&mdash;By contrast with Ex. 13:9;
28:26-38; Deut. 6:8; Z. '07-265; Rev. 7:3; 14:1; Ezek.
9:4-6. <q>Consecration to the service of the beast is what
is signified here.</q> (Cook.) (Lev. 19:28.) <q>All classes of
Christians must bow; all must, in some way, give evidence
of their support of the Image and consecration to its interests
and laws; either a public, open profession of being
members of the Alliance, and hence supporters (mark in
forehead), or at least a giving of some assistance and
influence to the principles of Image organisation&mdash;(the
right-hand support).</q> (Z. '80-1-2.) This implies a re-establishment
of the inquisition <emph>soon</emph>&mdash;in some form of house-to-house
<q>investigation</q> or public enrollment.
</p>

<p>
13:17. <hi rend='sans'>[And] That no man might buy or sell.</hi>&mdash;<q>The
<q>buying and selling,</q> like the other features, is symbolic,
and refers to dealing in spiritual things. [But it may be
literally fulfilled as well in the year of prospective famine
now at hand.] None may be recognized as having any
right to teach or preach or baptize or administer the
emblems of our Lord's death, except those licensed by
some orthodox member of the Image, and acts of such persons
(<q>unlicensed</q>) are not counted valid.</q>&mdash;Z. '80-1-2.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Save he that had the mark [or the name] of the beast.</hi>&mdash;Protestants
affiliated with the Federal Council of Churches&mdash;already
<q>marked,</q> stamped O. K. by the papacy.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Or his name.</hi>&mdash;Roman Catholics.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Or the number of his name.</hi>&mdash;Consent to the principle of
clergy rule in matters of faith, order and war (murder.)&mdash;Rev.
15:2.
</p>

<pb n='215'/><anchor id='Pg215'/>

<p>
13:18. <hi rend='sans'>Here is wisdom. Let him that hath [understanding]
AN EAR count the number of the beast.</hi>&mdash;<q>Here is
scope for ingenuity. Let people of shrewd intelligence calculate
the number of the Wild Beast; for it indicates a certain
man, and his number is 666.</q>&mdash;Weym.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For it is the number of a man.</hi>&mdash;The Man of Sin, the
Papacy.&mdash;Rev. 19:20; 2 Thes. 2:3.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[And his number is] Six hundred threescore and six.</hi>&mdash;In
the Greek this number is six hundred (represented by
the Greek letter χ), plus sixty (represented by the Greek
letter ξ), plus six (represented by the Greek letter ζ). It
is not as though it read six plus six plus six.
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>The following extract on this point is from a work
entitled The Reformation, bearing the date of 1832:</q>
</p>

<p>
<q><q>Mrs. A.,</q> said Miss Emmons, <q>I saw a very curious
fact the other day; I have dwelt upon it much, and will
mention it. A person, lately, was witnessing
a ceremony of the Romish
Church. As the pope passed him in
the procession, splendidly dressed in
his pontifical robes, the gentleman's
eye rested on these full, blazing letters
in front of his mitre (tiara&mdash;crown):
VICARIVS FILII DEI, the
Vicar of the Son of God. His thoughts,
with the rapidity of lightning, reverted
to Rev. 13:18.</q> <q>Will you turn to it?</q>
said Mrs. A. Alice opened the New
Testament, and read: <q>Let him that
hath understanding count the number
of the beast: for it is the number of a
man; and his number is Six hundred
threescore and six.</q> She paused, and
Miss Emmons said, <q>He took out his
pencil, and marking the numerical letters
of the inscription on his tablet, it
stood 666.</q></q> (Smith.) This explanation
was approved by Pastor Russell,
and was given by him at a Convention Question Meeting.
</p>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{2cm} p{2cm}'; tblcolumns: 'lw(5) rw(7)'">
<row><cell>V</cell><cell>5</cell></row>
<row><cell>I</cell><cell>1</cell></row>
<row><cell>C</cell><cell>100</cell></row>
<row><cell>A</cell><cell>0</cell></row>
<row><cell>R</cell><cell>0</cell></row>
<row><cell>I</cell><cell>1</cell></row>
<row><cell>V</cell><cell>5</cell></row>
<row><cell>S</cell><cell>0</cell></row>
<row><cell></cell><cell>&mdash;&mdash;</cell></row>
<row><cell>F</cell><cell>0</cell></row>
<row><cell>I</cell><cell>1</cell></row>
<row><cell>L</cell><cell>50</cell></row>
<row><cell>I</cell><cell>1</cell></row>
<row><cell>I</cell><cell>1</cell></row>
<row><cell></cell><cell>&mdash;&mdash;</cell></row>
<row><cell>D</cell><cell>500</cell></row>
<row><cell>E</cell><cell>0</cell></row>
<row><cell>I</cell><cell>1</cell></row>
<row><cell>&mdash;&mdash;</cell><cell>&mdash;&mdash;</cell></row>
<row><cell>Total</cell><cell>666</cell></row>
</table>

<p>
On the pope's crown in the Vatican museum is the recognized
and most used title of the pope, VICARIVS FILII
DEI (Vicar of the Son of God.) The word VICARIVS is on
the top of the threefold crown. The word FILII is on the
second circlet; and the words are made from dark, shining
precious jewels. The word DEI is on the under part of
the threefold crown and is made of 100 diamonds. <q>The
Tiara is a bee-hive shaped, somewhat bulging head-covering,
ornamented with three crowns. It is first mentioned
<pb n='216'/><anchor id='Pg216'/>
by Pope Constantine, in A. D. 715. It first appears on
papal coins in the reign of Sergius III., A. D. 911. At this
period it was merely a cap of white stuff. The papal coins
of the 11th century leave it doubtful whether the ornamental
band at the lower edge of the tiara is intended
to represent a crown or merely a decoration. It is only
in representations dating from the late 13th century that
the circlet appears as a regular spiked crown. The second
circlet was added by Pope Boniface VIII., A. D. 1303. The
third was added under Clement V., A. D. 1311.</q> (Brit.)
The reason for the addition of any of these crowns is unknown,
or why the pope should have any crown at all.
The words VICARIVS FILII DEI are, it is said, also carved
over the entrance to the Vatican.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
Gideon's Band.
</p>

<lg>
<l><q>Count Me the swords that have come.</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'><q>Lord, thousands on thousands are ready.</q></l>
<l><q rend='pre'>Lo! these are too many, and with them are some</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Whose hearts and whose hands are not steady.</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>He whose soul does not burn,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>Let him take up his tent and return.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q>Count Me the swords that remain.</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'><q>Lord, hundreds on hundreds are daring.</q></l>
<l><q rend='pre'>These yet are too many for Me to attain</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>To the victory I am preparing.</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>Lead them down to the brink</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'><q rend='post'>Of the waters of Marah to drink.</q></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>Lord those who remain are but few,</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>And the hosts of the foe are appalling,</l>
<l><q rend='post'>And what can a handful such as we do?</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'><q rend='pre'>When ye hear from beyond, My Voice calling,</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>Sound the trump! Hold the light!</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'><q rend='post'>Great Midian will melt in your sight!</q></l>
</lg>

</quote>

</div>

<pb n='217'/><anchor id='Pg217'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Revelation 14&mdash;The Five Harvest Messages</head>

<p>
14:1. <hi rend='sans'>And I looked, and, [lo, a] BEHOLD THE Lamb.</hi>&mdash;See
Rev. 5:6; 13:8; John 1:29, 36; Acts 8:32; 1 Pet. 1:19.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Stood on the Mount Sion.</hi>&mdash;The Return of the Lord is
here pictured as accomplished the sleeping saints raised,
and the full number called. This was all fulfilled in 1878.
(Rev. 11:17.) At that time our Lord took unto Himself
His great power and began His Reign.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And with Him an hundred forty and four thousand.</hi>&mdash;See
Rev. 7:4.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Having His [Father's] name AND THE NAME OF HIS
FATHER.</hi>&mdash;How beautiful and how true that we have <emph>both</emph>
the Father and the Son in our minds, while trinitarians
must necessarily have more or less, and are proportionately
confused.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Written in their foreheads.</hi>&mdash;Isa. 44:5; Rev. 7:3; Ex.
13:9; 28:26-38; Deut. 6:8; Z. '07-265; Ezek. 9:2-6.
</p>

<p>
14:2. <hi rend='sans'>And I heard a voice.</hi>&mdash;The message of Present
Truth from the lips of the Lord's saints on this side of
the veil. They are on Mount Zion in the spirit of their
minds.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>From heaven.</hi>&mdash;<q>We are seated with Him in Heavenly
places.</q>&mdash;Rev. 13:6.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>As the voice of many waters.</hi>&mdash;A great outpouring of
Truth, in many tongues.&mdash;Rev. 1:16; 19:6.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And as the voice of [a great] thunder.</hi>&mdash;Seven thunders,
the seven volumes of <hi rend='italic'>Scripture Studies</hi>.&mdash;Rev. 8:5; 10:3, 4.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And [I heard] the voice WHICH I HEARD WAS AS
THAT of harpers harping with their Harps.</hi>&mdash;<q>The Scriptures
of the Old and New Testaments constitute what the
Lord Himself designates <q>the Harp of God.</q> (Rev. 15:2.)
And the various testimonies of the Law and the Prophets
are the several chords of that Harp, which, when tuned by
the Holy Spirit dwelling in our hearts, and swept by the
fingers of the devoted servants and searchers after Divine
Truth, yields the most enchanting strains that ever fell on
mortal ears.</q>&mdash;F. 233; Rev. 5:8.
</p>

<p>
14:3. <hi rend='sans'>And they [sang as it were] SING a new song.</hi>&mdash;The
Lord particularly promised that in this Harvest time, out
of His Storehouse would come things <emph>new</emph>. (Matt. 13:52;
24:45.) <q>In symbol He pointed out to us the fact that
<pb n='218'/><anchor id='Pg218'/>
the Message of His grace in the closing days of this Gospel
Age would be so different from the commonly accepted
message, misnamed the Gospel, that it would properly
be termed a new song.</q>&mdash;Z. '00-37; Rev. 5:9; 15:3.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>AND IT WAS before the Throne.</hi>&mdash;While still on earth.
Compare Rev. 4:5 and 5:6.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And before the four beasts.</hi>&mdash;Every declaration of Present
Truth has for its object the presentation of one or
more of the Divine attributes&mdash;Justice, Power, Love and
Wisdom. All that we do in the service of the Truth is
done in their sight.&mdash;Rev. 4:7-10.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And BEFORE the elders.</hi>&mdash;The prophecies. In all that
we do we are pointing to the prophecies and fulfilling
them. How often it was said of our Lord Jesus, that He
said or did this or that <q>That it might be fulfilled which
was spoken by the mouth of</q> one of the Prophets.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And no man could learn that song but the 144,000.</hi>&mdash;<q>Nothing
is more manifest than that it is necessary to
be somewhat of an <q>overcomer</q> of the world and its spirit
which pervades nominal Christendom, ere any would have
the courage to sing this song&mdash;to declare before men the
lengths, breadths, heights and depths of the goodness and
grace of the Divine Plan, of which Jesus and His Sacrifice
are the center. To all others <q>the fear of man bringeth a
snare,</q> and stoppeth their mouths from speaking <q>forth
the praise of Him who called us out of darkness into
His marvelous light.</q> <q>But the people that do know their
God [His Character and Plan] shall be valiant and do
exploits,</q> and like the Apostles of old will feel and say.
<q>Whether it be right to obey God or men, judge ye; but
we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and
heard,</q>&mdash;Dan. 11:32; Acts 4:19, 20.</q>&mdash;Z. '00-37.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which were redeemed from the earth.</hi>&mdash;<foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>Agorazo</foreign>, acquired
at the forum.&mdash;E. <hi rend='italic'>443</hi>, 429.
</p>

<p>
14:4. <hi rend='sans'>These are they which were not defiled with
women; for they are virgins.</hi>&mdash;<q rend='pre'>All Bible exponents of the
Protestant kind recognize there are two Women especially
mentioned in Revelation; the one the true Woman, the
Bride class, the other the false Woman; and Protestants
in general understand that false Woman to represent the
papacy. Then again other Protestants understand that
the Scriptures which refer to the mother and daughters
refer to the papacy, and these denominational daughters,
or systems, which sprang from her, and have more or
less of her nature, disposition and characteristics. The
Bible proposition is that the Church is a Virgin Church;
viz.: not united to the world at all, and that this is the
error that was made by the early Church in leaving Christ
<pb n='219'/><anchor id='Pg219'/>
as the prospective Bridegroom and becoming united with
the nation of Rome. This constituted an illicit union; for
as the Bride of Christ she had no right whatever to be
associated with any earthly dominion; therefore in becoming
associated with the Roman Emperor she lost her
standing. We are to remember that this word <q>harlotry</q>
as used in Revelation is merely a symbolical term; there
is nothing more than that to be understood. God speaks
of some of His children as being in Babylon. Babylon is
the name for the mother, the papal system, and the
daughters also have the same name. It means confusion,
mixture and improper relationship. Now then some are
in Babylon and not of Babylon, just the same as the children
of Israel were carried captive into Babylon, but they
were not Babylonians. And in due time God sent forth
the Message to all Natural Israel that if those who had
been carried in captivity into Babylon desired to return
to the Lord their God, and to the Land of Promise, they
might do so. Cyrus gave that decree, you remember, and
many of them did return.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>No one is called out of Babylon until he hears the
Lord's voice. So you and I may have been in Babylon
for years and not have had any responsibility or any impurity;
we were not defiled, because we did not know
any better. But He says, <q>Come out of her, My people,
that ye be not partakers of her sins.</q> That implies that
you are not yet partakers of her sins; you are My people,
in her, but not yet partakers. I was not responsible for
what was in my head from childhood; and God did not
hold me responsible; nor you, nor anyone else; but after
we come to see the great errors which are taught by
Babylon's system then we are responsible. We have said
things about our Heavenly Father that we would be
ashamed to say about ourselves or of our earthly parents.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>We have said He created our world of mankind and
knew what He was doing, had full power and full wisdom,
and intended from the beginning to damn nine hundred
and ninety-nine out of every thousand, and to have them
roast through all eternity; and that He made fireproof
devils to handle them; that He created a great place
called hell in which all of this diabolical work was going
on. No honorable man would treat a poor rat that way&mdash;predestinate
the rat before it was born, foreordain it to
eternal torture. And now then after we once see that this
doctrine is blasphemy against God, after we once see that
it was evidently instigated by our great Adversary, the
Devil&mdash;after we once see what an awful thing it is&mdash;if then
we wish to uphold earthly systems and give our lives,
<pb n='220'/><anchor id='Pg220'/>
strength, talents and means, to upholding these diabolical
teachings, then we are worse than any others there; we
are the worst of them all. What right has any man to
stay inside of a denomination and deny the teachings of
that denomination? He is branding himself as a fraud,
professing to believe what he knows he does not believe,
claiming to teach what he knows he should not teach; or,
on the other hand, teaching that which he knows is wrong,
and professing that which he does not believe at all. The
whole matter is wrong; such are defiled by the Women.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>But those who come out when they see the right and
wrong on the question, who take their stand for right,
they are delivering their souls from Babylon. <q>Flee out of
Babylon, saith the Lord; deliver every man his soul.</q> Now
no one is responsible to flee out unless he sees that it is
Babylon, but the very suggestion that it is Babylon to
every honest person means that he should make an investigation,
and a thorough one, to know whether or not he
is in Babylon. If he says, <q>Well, God's voice says <q>flee
out of Babylon,</q> and I believe that the system is Babylon,
but I do not wish to look into it for fear I find it true,</q>
that means he is dishonest with himself; he is defiling
himself. There is only one way of being thoroughly
honest, and that is to be honest.</q> (Pastor Russell.) <q>That
the words can only be understood spiritually seems to
follow from the whole tone of Apocalyptic symbolism:&mdash;see
the mention of the Bridegroom and the Bride, of the
Harlot and her fornications. Elsewhere we have the
language of Ps. 45, of the Canticles, of the Book of Hosea,
above all of 2 Cor. 11:2:&mdash;<q>I have espoused you to one
Husband, that I may present you as a chaste virgin to
Christ.</q></q>&mdash;Cook.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[These are they which] THOSE WHO follow The Lamb.</hi>&mdash;On
this side of the veil.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Whithersoever He goeth.</hi>&mdash;Those who fail to <q>Walk in
the light as He is in the light</q> find sooner or later that
they <q>walk in darkness</q> for the light goes on and leaves
them.&mdash;John 1:6, 7; Prov. 4:18.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>These were redeemed from among men.</hi>&mdash;They are a
separate class, <q>from among</q> men. <q>The thought is that
of public purchase; and all the other uses of this word
<foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>agorazo</foreign>, throughout the New Testament, emphatically support
a most commercial signification. We call especial
attention to the signification of this word, because the
tendency to deny that there was a purchase of our race
effected by a <emph>price</emph> given for man's release from the <q>curse</q>
is prevalent and a growing one&mdash;very subversive of the
true faith, once delivered to the saints.</q>&mdash;E. <hi rend='italic'>443</hi>, 430.
</p>

<pb n='221'/><anchor id='Pg221'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[Being the first-fruits] FROM THE BEGINNING unto
God and [to] IN the Lamb.</hi>&mdash;<q>Separated from the entire
mass as the best absolutely.&mdash;Num. 18:12.</q> (Cook) Deut.
26:2; Jas. 1:18.
</p>

<p>
14:5. <hi rend='sans'>And in their mouth.</hi>&mdash;By contrast to the lies of the
False Prophet.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Was found no [guile] FALSEHOOD.</hi>&mdash;They fully and
thoroughly believe the doctrines they teach.&mdash;Psa. 15:1, 2.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For they are without fault [before the Throne of God].</hi>&mdash;<q>Faultless
before the presence of His glory with exceeding
Joy.</q>&mdash;Jude 24; Eph. 5:27; Psa. 15:1-5.
</p>

<p>
14:6. <hi rend='sans'>And I saw [another] AN angel.</hi>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>The Divine Plan
of the Ages</hi>, Volume I of the <hi rend='italic'>Scripture Studies</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Fly in the midst of heaven.</hi>&mdash;<q>From one end of heaven
to the other</q> amongst Christian people of all denominations.&mdash;Matt.
24:31.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Having the everlasting Gospel.</hi>&mdash;The same Gospel
preached by our Heavenly Father (Gal. 3:8), the Lord
Jesus Christ (John 10:16), the holy Apostles (Acts 15:13-18),
the holy Prophets (Acts 3:19-24) and the holy Angels
(Luke 2:10, 13, 14); but entirely overlooked by the clergy.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To preach unto them that dwell on the earth.</hi>&mdash;To independent
Christians.&mdash;Rev. 13:13, 14.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And [to] UNTO every nation, and kindred, and tongue,
and people.</hi>&mdash;All mankind, living and dead.&mdash;1 Tim. 2:4-7.
</p>

<p>
14:7. <hi rend='sans'>[Saying] with a loud voice.</hi>&mdash;By millions of copies
circulated earth-wide.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Fear God, and give glory to Him.</hi>&mdash;Rather than to creeds,
sects and clergy.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For the hour of His judgment is come.</hi>&mdash;The <hi rend='italic'>MILLENNIAL
DAWN</hi>, the dawn of the thousand-year Judgment Day
of Christ, is at hand.&mdash;Rev. 15:4; 11:18.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And worship Him that made Heaven, and earth, and the
sea.</hi>&mdash;God, our Heavenly Father, the Creator of all things.&mdash;Neh.
9:6; Psa. 33:6, 124:8; Acts 14:15; 17:24.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the fountains of waters.</hi>&mdash;His Heaven-sent Word.
</p>

<p>
14:8. <hi rend='sans'>And there followed another [angel] A SECOND.</hi>&mdash;Volume
II of <hi rend='italic'>Scripture Studies</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Saying, [Babylon is fallen,] is fallen, [that] BABYLON,
THE great [city].</hi>&mdash;Chapters 7 and 9 of Volume II are particularly
devoted to this theme. <q>The name Babylon
originally signified God's gate-way; but afterward, in
derision, it came to mean <emph>mixture</emph> or <emph>confusion</emph>. In the
book of Revelation this name is applied specifically to the
church nominal, which, from being the gate-way to glory,
became a gate-way to error and confusion, a miserable
mixture composed chiefly of tares, hypocrites,&mdash;a confused
mass of worldly profession in which the Lord's jewels are
<pb n='222'/><anchor id='Pg222'/>
buried, and their true beauty and luster hidden.</q> (C. 153.)
<q>The name Babylon was applied, not only to the capital
city of the Babylonian empire, but also to the empire itself.
Babylon, the capital, was the most magnificent, and probably
the largest, city of the ancient world. It was built
in the <q>form of a square on both sides of the Euphrates
river; and, for protection against invaders, it was surrounded
by a deep moat filled with water and inclosed
within a vast system of double walls, from thirty-two to
eighty-five feet thick, and from seventy-five to three hundred
feet high. On the summit were low towers, said to
have been two hundred and fifty in number, placed along
the outer and inner edges of the wall, tower facing tower;
and in these walls were a hundred brazen gates, twenty-five
on each side, corresponding to the number of streets
which intersected each other at right angles. The city
was adorned with splendid palaces and temples and the
spoils of conquest.</q></q> (D. 23; Jer. 51:8; Rev. 18:2.) <q>This
use of the aorist&mdash;in the sense of the <q>prophetic preterite</q>&mdash;expresses
the certainty of the fall: see chapters 10:7;
11:18; 18:2; and see on chapter 15:1. The language is
taken from Isa. 21:9, the verb denoting the violent fall
and overthrow of kingdoms&mdash;see Ezek. 30:6; and see on
chapter 17:10. With the fall of Babylon, the capital of
the ungodly world-kingdom, the Old Testament connects
the redemption of the people of God.&mdash;Isa. 13:19; 47:1;
Jer. 51:1-10.</q>&mdash;Cook.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Because [she made all nations drink of] ALL NATIONS
HAVE FALLEN THROUGH the wine of the wrath of her
fornication.</hi>&mdash;<q>The ruin of all the nations of earth is here attributed
directly to the fact that <q>Babylon made all the
peoples drunk with the wine [spirit, influence] of her
fornication</q>&mdash;worldly affiliation.</q>&mdash;C. 164, 104; Jer. 51:7;
Rev. 2:20; 17:2, 5; 18:3; 19:2.
</p>

<p>
14:9. <hi rend='sans'>And [the] ANOTHER, A third angel followed
them.</hi>&mdash;Volume III of the <hi rend='italic'>Scripture Studies</hi> followed I and II.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Saying with a loud voice.</hi>&mdash;Proclaiming clearly, in chapters
2, 4 and 6.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>If any man worship the beast.</hi>&mdash;The Papacy.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And his image.</hi>&mdash;The Evangelical-Alliance-Spiritism combination.&mdash;Rev.
13:11, 13, 14, 15; 14:11; 15:2; 16:2,
13; 19:20; 20:10; Matt. 24:24.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And receive his mark In his forehead, or in his hand.</hi>&mdash;See
Rev. 13:16, 17.
</p>

<p>
14:10. <hi rend='sans'>The same shall drink of the wine of the wrath
of God.</hi>&mdash;The Message of Present Truth.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which is poured out without mixture.</hi>&mdash;Different from
Babylon's <emph>mixed</emph> wine.&mdash;Isa. 5:20-22.
</p>

<pb n='223'/><anchor id='Pg223'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Into the cup of His indignation.</hi>&mdash;<q>The Lord our God
hath put us to silence and given us water of gall to drink,
because we have sinned against the Lord.</q>&mdash;Jer. 8:14;
Isa. 51:17-20; Jer. 25:26-28; Rev. 18:6; 16:19; Psa. 60:3;
75:8.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And he shall be tormented with fire and brimstone.</hi>&mdash;Whoever
worships, reverences, human institutions and
doctrines more than the Word of the Lord has experienced
the torment here specified. Doctrines of hell fire and
brimstone have been his portion.&mdash;Rev. 9:17-19.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>In the presence of the holy angels.</hi>&mdash;The Harvest workers
on this side of the veil.&mdash;Matt. 13:39.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And in the presence of the Lamb.</hi>&mdash;<q>In the days of the
Son of Man;</q> after the Second Advent has taken place.
</p>

<p>
14:11. <hi rend='sans'>And the smoke of their torment.</hi>&mdash;<q>A noun, unlike
a verb (or <q>time-word,</q> as the Germans call it), does not
indicate time. So <q>the smoke of their torment</q> may mean
that of pain endured once for all, and then at an end.
There is nothing in this verse that necessarily implies an
eternity of suffering. In a similar way the word <q>punishment</q>
or <q>correction</q> in Matt. 25:46 gives in itself no indication
of time. Cp. Gen. 19:28; Jude 7.</q> (Weym.)
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>About <emph>endless torment</emph>:</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>(a) The doctrine is found nowhere in the Old Testament,
nor any hint of it. The expression, in the end of
Isaiah, about the fire unquenched and the worms not dying,
is plainly of the corpses of men upon the physical earth.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>(b) The doctrine of endless torment was, as a historical
fact, brought back from Babylon by the Rabbis.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>(c) St Paul accepts nothing of it as far as we can tell,
never making the least allusion to the doctrine.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>(d) The Apocalypse asserts that not only <emph>death</emph>, but
<emph>hell</emph> shall be cast into the Lake of Fire.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>(e) The Christian Church has never really held it
exclusively till now.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>(f) Since the Reformation it has been an open question
in the English Church.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>(g) The Church of England, by the deliberate expunging
of the 42nd Article, which affirmed endless punishment,
has declared it, authoritatively, to be open.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>(h) It is so, in fact. Neither I nor any others who
have denied it can be dispossessed or proceeded against
legally, in any way whatsoever.&mdash;Rev. Chas. Kingsley, May
9, 1857.</q>&mdash;Z. '11-363.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Ascendeth up for ever and ever.</hi>&mdash;<q>The remembrance of
the destruction of these systems of deception and error
will be lasting, the lesson will never be forgotten&mdash;as
smoke, which continues to ascend after a destructive fire,
<pb n='224'/><anchor id='Pg224'/>
is testimony that the fire has done its work.&mdash;See also
Isa. 34:8-10.</q>&mdash;H. 64; Rev. 19:3.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And they have no rest day or night.</hi>&mdash;A literal fulfillment
of this is expected. (Rev. 7:3.) A few days of it
will be enough to satisfy the most ardent lover of the
torment system of religion. And it will be a just recompense
of reward.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Who worship the beast and his Image.</hi>&mdash;<q>All will at
once concede that if a literal worshipping of a beast and
image were meant in verse 9, then few, if any, in civilized
lands are liable to the penalty of verse 11; and if the
beast and his image and worship and wine and cup are
symbols, so also are the torments and smoke and fire and
brimstone.</q>&mdash;H. 64; Rev. 14:9.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And whosoever receiveth the mark of his name.</hi>&mdash;Of
fear, sympathy or worship.
</p>

<p>
14:12. <hi rend='sans'>Here is the patience of the saints.</hi>&mdash;Their
crowning trial.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[Here are they] that keep the commandments of God.</hi>&mdash;The
commandments of God during the Harvest time are
to proclaim, <q>Gather My saints together unto Me;</q> <q>Flee
out of the midst of Babylon, and deliver every man his
soul: be not cut off in her iniquity.</q>&mdash;Psa. 50:5; Jer. 51:6.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the faith of Jesus.</hi>&mdash;<q>He laid down His life for us;
and we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren.</q>
(1 John 3:16.) The Great Company class are our brethren
and we ought to show as much interest in them as we do
in the Little Flock. The gathering of the full number of
the Very Elect would give us no reason to discontinue
Harvest work.
</p>

<p>
14:13. <hi rend='sans'>And I heard a voice from Heaven.</hi>&mdash;The Heavenly
Father's Word.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Saying [unto me], Write.</hi>&mdash;The message found in chapter
9 of Volume III.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord.</hi>&mdash;<q>Each
member of the Body of Christ must finish his sacrifice in
actual death. They are reckoned of God as being already
dead, and they are exhorted so also to reckon themselves:
<q>Reckon ye yourselves dead indeed unto sin.</q> No other
dead men can be said to die but this class of dead ones,
who must finish their course of sacrifice in actual death.</q>&mdash;C. 241;
1 Thes. 4:16.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>From henceforth.</hi>&mdash;From the spring of 1878.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[Yea,] saith the Spirit.</hi>&mdash;The Word of God, in Rev. 6:11.
<q>Nowhere in the Scriptures is death represented as in any
sense a blessing, except in this one instance; and here
it is particularly limited and made applicable to a certain
specific time.</q>&mdash;C. 240.
</p>

<pb n='225'/><anchor id='Pg225'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That they may rest from their labors.</hi>&mdash;<q>Poor, bruised
<q>feet,</q> now despised of men, none but yourselves fully
appreciate your privileges. None others can appreciate
the joy you have in proclaiming Present Truth.</q> (C. 236.)
<q>One by one the <q>feet</q> class will pass from the present
condition, in which, though often weary and wounded,
they are always rejoicing, to the other side the veil;&mdash;<q>changed</q>
in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, from
mortality to immortality, from weakness to power, from
dishonor to glory, from human to Heavenly conditions,
from animal to spirit bodies.</q> (C. 237.) <q>Instead of the
Kingdom waiting for the living members to finish their
course, the Kingdom work began at once; and the living
ones on this side the veil are privileged to know <q>the
mysteries of the Kingdom</q> and to engage in Kingdom
work before their <q>change;</q> and as they die (will not fall
<q>asleep,</q> but) will be <q>changed</q> in the moment of death,
resurrected as part of the blessed and holy First Resurrection.</q>&mdash;D. 622.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[And] FOR their works do follow them.</hi>&mdash;<q>Their <emph>work</emph>
will not cease with this change; for all those who will be
counted worthy of that change to glory will be already
enlisted in the service of the Kingdom on this side the
veil: only the weariness, the labor feature, will cease with
the change.</q> (C. 238.) <q>We may not be able to judge
accurately as to what features of the great work are now
being carried on by the Lord and His glorified saints
beyond the veil; but we may be sure that they are active
participants in the work assigned the members of the
same Kingdom class, whose course and service are not
yet ended on this side the veil&mdash;the Harvest work.</q>&mdash;D. 624;
1 Cor. 15:58.
</p>

<p>
14:14. <hi rend='sans'>[And I looked], and behold a white cloud.</hi>&mdash;See
Rev. 10:1. As the cloud indicates the Time of Trouble,
so the white indicates the pure motive back of it.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And upon the cloud [one sat] I SAW ONE SITTING like
unto the Son of Man.</hi>&mdash;<q>To the Jewish House Jesus presented
Himself in three characters&mdash;as Bridegroom (John
3:29), Reaper (John 4:35, 38) and King (Matt. 21:5, 9, 4).
To the Christian House He presents Himself in the same
characters. (2 Cor. 11:2; Rev. 14:14, 15; 17:14.)</q>&mdash;B. 238.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Having on His head a golden crown.</hi>&mdash;The Divine nature,
Immortality, the highest form of life.&mdash;2 Tim. 4:8;
Jas. 1:12; 1 Pet. 5:4.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And in His hand a sharp sickle.</hi>&mdash;<q>This Harvest, like the
Jewish one, is to be first a time of trial and sifting upon
the Church, and afterward a time of wrath upon the world,
including the nominal Church. That which tried fleshly
<pb n='226'/><anchor id='Pg226'/>
Israel in the Harvest of their Age was the truth then
presented to them. The truth then due was the sickle,
and it separated the <q>Israelites indeed</q> from the nominal
Jewish Church; and of the true wheat there was but a
fragment compared to the professors. So also is the
Harvest of this Age. The Harvest of the Gospel Age,
like that of the Jewish Age, is under the supervision of
the Chief Reaper, our Lord Jesus, who must then be
present.</q>&mdash;A. 238.
</p>

<p>
14:15. <hi rend='sans'>And another angel.</hi>&mdash;The Witness to the Lord in
the Land of Egypt. (Isa. 19:20.) See pages 309, 311,
Vol. III, and observe that Chapter 10, Vol. III, <hi rend='italic'>Scripture
Studies</hi>, is in reality a separate book.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Came out of [the] HIS temple, crying with a loud voice.</hi>&mdash;Throughout
the 66 pages of his testimony.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To Him that sat on the cloud.</hi>&mdash;To our Present Lord.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Thrust in Thy sickle, and reap: for the time is come
[for thee] to reap.</hi>&mdash;The Great Pyramid confirms the
Bible's teaching that the time of Harvest has come.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For the Harvest of the earth is ripe.</hi>&mdash;<q>The use of a
sickle is to gather wheat, not to ripen it.</q>
</p>

<p>
14:16. <hi rend='sans'>And He that sat on the cloud.</hi>&mdash;The Lord Jesus,
during His Parousia, overruling and withholding the Time
of Trouble.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Thrust in His sickle on the earth; and the earth was
reaped.</hi>&mdash;Reading verses 13-16 connectedly, we note that
the resurrection of the sleeping saints is recorded, and is
immediately followed by the Harvest. This suggests that
the Harvest proper began in 1878; and that the three and
a half years prior to the spring of 1878 was devoted to
preliminary work, but not to Harvest work in the full
sense. It was not proper to say <q>Come out of her, My
people,</q> until Babylon was cast off, in the Spring of 1878.&mdash;Rev.
3:14; Matt. 13:30; 24:31.
</p>

<p>
14:17. <hi rend='sans'>And another angel.</hi>&mdash;Pastor Russell himself, after
the harvesting of the saints was finished. (Volumes IV, V,
VI are not shown in this strictly Harvest chapter, as they
are more used for the upbuilding of the saints than as
Harvest instruments. They are, however, shown in Rev.
10:4; 15:8; 16:1-18.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Came out of the Temple which is in Heaven.</hi>&mdash;The
Church in glory, on the other side of the veil.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>He also having a sharp sickle.</hi>&mdash;The privilege of guiding
the work of bringing forth out of the Divine Storehouse
all the Master's store of provisions, as needed, and of
directing the execution upon the nominal church of the
chastisements promised in the Holy Word. <q>Blessed is
that servant, whom his Lord when He cometh shall find
<pb n='227'/><anchor id='Pg227'/>
so doing. Of a truth I say unto you, that He will make
him ruler over <emph>all that He hath</emph>.</q>&mdash;Luke 12:44; Psa.
49:5-9; Isa. 21:1-10.
</p>

<p>
14:18. <hi rend='sans'>And another angel.</hi>&mdash;The corporate body which
Pastor Russell organized to finish his work. See Rev.
8:3-5, which describes the same matter as here narrated.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Came out from the altar.</hi>&mdash;The place of sacrifice. The
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Society</hi> is maintained by the sacrifices of the saints.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which had power over fire.</hi>&mdash;Authority over the publication
and distribution of expositions of Ezekiel and John
the Revelator, symbolical <q>coals of fire.</q>&mdash;Isa. 6:6; Ezek.
10:2.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And cried with a loud [cry] VOICE to Him that had the
sharp sickle.</hi>&mdash;What a disappointed cry went up from the
whole Church that dear Brother Russell went beyond the
veil without writing the Seventh Volume of <hi rend='italic'>Scripture
Studies</hi>, for which we all have looked so long!
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Saying, Thrust In Thy sharp sickle.</hi>&mdash;Oh, that the Lord
would wind up the present order of things, in whatever
way He might elect!&mdash;Joel 3:9-14, 13; Matt. 13:39-43.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And gather the clusters of the vine of the earth.</hi>&mdash;In
the Adventist cluster there are 6 bunches of smaller sects;
in the Baptist 15; Brethren (Dunkard) 4; Plymouth
Brethren 4; River Brethren 3; Catholic Apostolic 2;
Churches of the Living God 3; Churches of the New Jerusalem
2; Disciples of Christ 2; Evangelical Bodies 2;
Faith Associations 9; Friends 4; Latter-Day Saints 2;
Lutheran 21; Scandinavian Evangelical Bodies 3; Mennonite
13; Methodist 16; Moravian 2; Pentecostal bodies
2; Presbyterian 12; Protestant Episcopal 2; Reformed 4;
United Brethren 2.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For her grapes are fully ripe.</hi>&mdash;All these sects have long
ago taken their stand against the Truth and therefore
against the Lord. O Lord, judge them with Thy Truth!
Thou hast called them the <q>abominations of the earth</q>
and so they are. Bring their man-made clergy-ridden
systems to an end and make their memory to perish from
the earth! Amen.&mdash;Isa. 65:17; Rev. 17:5; Jer. 6:9-30.
</p>

<p>
14:19. <hi rend='sans'>And the angel thrust in his sickle [into] UPON
the earth.</hi>&mdash;Distributed far and wide among order-loving
people the good news that nominal Zion's travail is at
hand, and the new and better order of things near.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And gathered the vine of the earth.</hi>&mdash;Brought together
all the sects in virulent opposition to the Message of the
Truth.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And cast it into the great winepress of the wrath of
God.</hi>&mdash;<q>The fruitage of the True Vine is Love, and is
precious to the Father; but the fruitage of the Vine of
<pb n='228'/><anchor id='Pg228'/>
the Earth is selfishness in various forms, and will be
ultimately gathered into the great winepress of the wrath
of God in the great Time of Trouble with which this Age
will close.</q> (F. 207; Rev. 19:15.) <q>While the taking of
different names was wrong, it was an evidence of a deeper
wrong&mdash;of a selfish, party spirit. It was an evidence that
those Corinthians who took the party names had never
appreciated the oneness of the Body of Christ; that they
did not really appreciate that Christ is the only Head,
Leader and Standard; and that His is the only name by
which His followers should recognize themselves and
each other.</q> (Z. '08-116.)
</p>

<p>
Many of the clergy are today followers of Darwin and
Socrates instead of Moses and Christ And both Darwin
and Socrates were mentally unsound. The following is
from Dr. Dorland's <hi rend='italic'>The Age of Mental Virility</hi>: <q>It is likewise
exceptional to find an unusually short nose, such as
that possessed by Darwin and Socrates, among men of
intellect. Nasal abbreviation is one of the well-known
signs of degeneracy, as is also the sessile or otherwise
misshapen ear, the sugar-loaf skull, the close-set eyes, and
other physiognomic irregularities, including the cretinoid
face. The latter, strange to relate, has been noted in
certain men of remarkable genius, including Darwin and
Carlyle, Rembrandt, Pope and Socrates. I wish to emphasize
at this point the assertion that not every individual
who chances to possess one of the above mentioned physical
peculiarities is to be immediately stamped as a degenerate.
It is only when there is a combination of two
or more of these traits, especially if this combination has
been noted as a family peculiarity, that the suspicion will
be awakened; and this may then be confirmed and the
condition established by close and careful investigation.</q>
<q>Socrates,</q> writes Pedigo, <q>presented one of the most
interesting studies in dual personality and subconscious
conditions in all history in his memorable daemon, which
he said guided him and inspired him with wisdom.</q> <q>Herbert
Spencer was the victim of a fixed delusion.</q>
</p>

<p>
The clergy are the ones directly responsible for the war
in Europe. It was not their province to convince the
rulers of those countries that their kingdoms are parts of
God's Kingdom of peace, holiness, justice, love and truth&mdash;monstrous!
They are an entirely unauthorized class&mdash;except
by themselves; a self-perpetuating fraud. They
have brought upon their heads the blood of all the nations
of the earth in this world war; and God will require it at
their hands. In the spring of 1918, and from that time
onward forever, it will be as unsafe to tell the lies that
<pb n='229'/><anchor id='Pg229'/>
have filled Babylon's exchequers as it will to be a king.&mdash;Zech.
13:2-6. <q>Though controversy and words of passion and
arguments will be and are among the weapons used in this
battle, especially in the beginning of it, yet it will not end
with these. Every prophetic detail indicates that before it
ends it will be most sanguinary, a fierce and terrible
storm.</q>&mdash;D. 529; Jer. 25:26-38; Isa. 63:1-6; Lam. 1:15.
</p>

<p>
14:20. <hi rend='sans'>And the winepress.</hi>&mdash;The Seventh Volume of
<hi rend='italic'>Scripture Studies</hi>, the work that will squeeze the juice out
of the <q>Abominations of the earth.</q> Cook's <hi rend='italic'>Revelation</hi>, page
709, calls attention to the peculiar fact that this word is
<emph>both masculine and feminine</emph>. This seemingly indicates the
Lord's recognition of the co-operation of the <emph>sisters</emph>, particularly
in the closing feature of the Harvest work. Priscilla
was such a valuable helper that she was named before
her husband in Acts 18:18.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Was trodden without the city.</hi>&mdash;<q>In symbolic prophecy a
<q>city</q> signifies a religious government backed by power and
influence. Thus, for instance, the <q>holy city, the new Jerusalem,</q>
is the symbol used to represent the established Kingdom
of God, the overcomers of the Gospel Church exalted
and reigning in glory.</q> (D. 25.) <q>The treading of the winepress
is the last feature of Harvest work. The reaping
and gathering is all done first.</q> (D. 18.) Worldly editors
have applied this verse to the great war now raging in
Europe; but this expression makes it impossible to so apply
it. If the war is the winepress and Christendom the city,
it is not being trodden <emph>without</emph> the city, but right in its
midst. This suggests that the Revelator referred to another
city; and with propriety; for this chapter is devoted to
Harvest work only. What city more appropriate to refer to
then than the Bethel, the Divinely appointed center for the
Harvest work, the embryo Kingdom of God on earth? See
Rev. 19:15.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And blood.</hi>&mdash;Teachings which though truthful will be
death-dealing and seem <q>bloody</q> to sectarianism.
(<q>And blood came out of the winepress even unto the horse bridles</q> is a parenthetical
clause. Without this parenthesis the verse reads: <q>And the winepress was
trodden without the city by the distance of a thousand and two hundred furlongs.</q>)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Came out of the winepress.</hi>&mdash;The exposition of the prophecies
of Ezekiel and the Revelator.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Even unto the horse bridles.</hi>&mdash;So deep as to strangle
and drown the old false doctrinal hobbies so long ridden.
Sectarianism will be the universal laughing-stock. See
Rev., chapters 8 and 9. <q>Because I have called, and ye
refused; I have stretched out My hand, and no man
regarded; but ye have set at nought all My counsel, and
would none of My reproof; I will mock when your fear
<pb n='230'/><anchor id='Pg230'/>
cometh; when your fear cometh as desolation, and your
destruction cometh as a whirlwind; when distress and
anguish cometh upon you. Then shall they call upon Me,
but I will not answer; they shall seek Me early, but they
shall not find Me; for that they hated knowledge, and did
not choose the fear of the Lord. They would none of my
counsel: they despised all my reproof. Therefore shall
they eat of the fruit of their own way.</q>&mdash;Prov. 1:24-31.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>By the space of a thousand and [six] TWO hundred furlongs.</hi>&mdash;This
can not be interpreted to refer to the 2100
mile battle line of the world war. A furlong or stadium is
not a mile and this is without the city whereas the battle
line is within the city. See Rotherham's translation.
</p>

<p>
A stadium is 606-¾ English ft.; 1200 stadii are, mi., 137.9.
</p>

<p>
The work on this volume was done in
Scranton, Pa. As fast as it was completed
it was sent to the Bethel. Half
of the work was done at an average distance
of 5 blocks from the Lackawanna
station, and the other half at a distance
of 25 blocks. Blocks in Scranton are 10
to the mile. Hence the average distance
to the station is 15 blocks, or, 1.5 mi.
</p>

<p>
The mileage from Scranton to Hoboken
Terminal is shown in time tables as 143.8
and this is the mileage charged to passengers,
but in 1911, at an expense of
$12,000,000, the Lackawanna Railroad
completed its famous cut-off, saving 11
miles of the distance. From the day the
cut-off was completed the trainmen have
been allowed 11 miles less than the time
table shows, or a net distance of 132.8 mi.
</p>

<p>
Hoboken Ferry to Barclay Street Ferry,
New York, is 2.0 mi.
</p>

<p>
Barclay Street Ferry to Fulton Ferry,
New York, is 4,800 feet or 0.9 mi.
</p>

<p>
Fulton Ferry, New York, to Fulton
Ferry, Brooklyn, is 2,000 feet or 0.4 mi.
</p>

<p>
Fulton Ferry, Brooklyn, to Bethel, is
1,485 feet or 0.3 mi.
</p>

<p>
Shortest distance from place where the
winepress was trodden by the Feet Members
of the Lord, Whose guidance and
help alone made this volume possible.
(John 6:60, 61; Matt. 20:11.), mi., 137.9
</p>

</div>

<pb n='231'/><anchor id='Pg231'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Revelation 15&mdash;The Song Of The Saints</head>

<p>
15:1. <hi rend='sans'>And I saw another sign.</hi>&mdash;<foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>Seemion</foreign>, the same word
used by our Lord when He said, <q>Then shall appear the
<emph>sign</emph> of the Son of Man.</q> The proofs of the Lord's Second
Advent are here referred to.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>In heaven.</hi>&mdash;Among God's professed people.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Great and marvelous.</hi>&mdash;Very different in tone and contents
from other Bible <q>helps.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Seven angels.</hi>&mdash;The seven volumes of <hi rend='italic'>Studies in the
Scriptures</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Having the seven last plagues.</hi>&mdash;The seven volumes of
<hi rend='italic'>Studies in the Scriptures</hi> together constitute the third and
last woe poured out upon papacy.&mdash;Rev. 16:1-21; 22:18.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For in them is filled up the wrath of God.</hi>&mdash;Their united
testimony is that the Times of the Gentiles have expired,
the Reign of Christ has begun, all earthly potentates&mdash;Civil,
Social, Ecclesiastical and Financial&mdash;must give way
to the New Order of things, and will not give way peaceably,
but must be ejected.
</p>

<p>
15:2. <hi rend='sans'>And I saw as it were a sea of glass.</hi>&mdash;The Time of
Trouble made transparent. We can see why the Lord permits
it, and see the Golden Age of glory, peace and Divine
blessing that lies just beyond.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Mingled with fire.</hi>&mdash;The coming anarchy. <q>They are the
waves of the Red Sea, which appears on fire as the Sun of
righteousness arises upon them, on the margin of which
the true Israelites sing the song of Moses and the saving
Lamb. Standing on its shore are seen those who are delivered
from the beasts' sway as the Israelites were in their
exodus from the land of Pharaoh. The song of Moses is
sung by delivered Israel after the Egyptian plagues: here
the hymn of praise is sung by the redeemed before the
plagues are renewed and the Church gains its last victory
over the antichristian world.</q>&mdash;Cook.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And them that had gotten the victory over the beast,
and [over] his image.</hi>&mdash;Who understand and live in harmony
with the knowledge that both Papacy and Protestantism,
and the governments under their influence, are of
Satanic spirit.&mdash;Rev. 13:11, 13, 14, 15; 14:11; 16:2, 13;
19:20; 20:10; Matt. 24:24.
</p>

<pb n='232'/><anchor id='Pg232'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[And over his mark,] And over the number of his name.</hi>&mdash;Who
refuse to let any stand for them in the place of
Christ.&mdash;Rev. 13:14-18.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Stand on the sea of glass.</hi>&mdash;Not in among the restless
and discontented, but on a higher plane.&mdash;Heb. 13:5.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Having the harps of THE LORD God.</hi>&mdash;See Rev. 5:8; 14:2.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>God's Word is that harp, which has long been unstrung,</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And men heard but discordant its notes;</l>
<l>Now as tuned are its chords from Moses to John,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'><q rend='post'>How grandly sweet melody floats.</q></l>
</lg>

</quote>

<p>
15:3. <hi rend='sans'>And [they sing] SINGING the song of Moses.</hi>&mdash;<q>Hebrew
scholars have remarked on the evidence of the antiquity
of the song of Moses, recorded in Exodus 15:1-20,
some even noting the fact that a few of the words showed
an intermingling of the Egyptian language. It is further
authenticated by the reference made to it in the book of
Psalms, where the entire matter of the deliverance of the
people and the overthrow of their enemies in the sea is
graphically described by the sweet singer of Israel. (Psa.
106:7-12.) If it was appropriate, as we all admit that it
was, that the Israelites should give glory to God for their
deliverance from the bondage of Egypt, much more is it
appropriate that spiritual Israel should recognize the still
greater deliverance from the power of Satan and the thralldom
of sin, accomplished for us through the blood of the
Lamb of God who died for our sins.</q>&mdash;Z. '07-158; Rev. 14:3.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The Servant of God.</hi>&mdash;See Ex. 14:31.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the song of the Lamb.</hi>&mdash;<q>They sing in the sense of
declaring in harmonious and beautiful cadences the relationship
of the types and figures of the Law and the Prophets
of the Mosaic Dispensation with the antitypes of
these of the Gospel Dispensation; showing that all things
written in the Law and in the Prophets are finding glorious
fulfilments in the Lamb of God and in the great Plan
which the Father is working out through Him.</q>&mdash;Z. '00-310.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Saying, Great and marvelous are Thy works, Lord God
Almighty.</hi>&mdash;<q>First amongst the great and marvelous
works of the Almighty was the sentence of death upon
father Adam and his posterity. As we look at this marvelous
work, we must concede that it was just (in that it
was merited), that it is true (in the sense of not being an
unreasonable penalty), true in the sense that it was
exactly what God forewarned father Adam the penalty of
disobedience would be. <q>Just and true are thy ways, thou
King of Saints.</q> But Jehovah's first great and marvelous
work of condemnation was, after four thousand years, followed
by another great and marvelous work; <hi rend='italic'>viz.</hi>, the
<pb n='233'/><anchor id='Pg233'/>
work of redemption. How stupendous this work of the
ransoming of all Adam's race of hundreds of millions by
the sacrifice of one Man! How great and wonderful indeed
this act, and how just and true, and how fully in
Harmony with every feature of Divine Justice and Love!&mdash;1
Tim. 2:5, 6; Rom. 5:12, 18, 19.</q>&mdash;Z. '00-310.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Just and true are Thy ways.</hi>&mdash;<q>As we have viewed the
failure of Christendom to adopt the spirit of Christ's teaching,
and seen how the knowledge and liberty gained from
His teachings were blended with the spirit of evil, selfishness,
and as from present foreshadowings we mark the
sure approach of anarchy and every evil work, yet realizing
its necessity and justice, and having learned also the
ends of mercy to be attained eventually by this very
means, our hearts exclaim, <q>Great and marvelous are Thy
works, Lord God Almighty. Just and true are Thy
ways.</q></q> (D. 526; Deut. 32:4; Psa. 145:17.) <q>As Aaron and
the two remaining sons were forbidden to make lamentation
for their brethren who were cut off, this signifies
that all the faithful of the priests will recognize the justice
of the Divine decisions, and will bow to them in humble
submission, saying, <q>Just and true are Thy ways.</q></q>&mdash;Lev.
10:1-7; Psa. 89:14; Job 36:17; 37:23; Isa. 56:1; T. 40.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Thou King of [saints] THE WORLDS.</hi>&mdash;The margin renders
this <q>King of nations or ages.</q> He will be King of all
nations by and by. He is King of all ages (worlds) in the
sense that the ages are working out His sovereign will.
</p>

<p>
15:4. <hi rend='sans'>Who shall not fear Thee, O Lord, and glorify Thy
name.</hi>&mdash;<q>Here is still another feature to this song, and it is
glorious also. It looks forward to the glorious Millennial
Age, to the time when, under Divine providence, the
knowledge of the Lord, essential to faith, and to any acceptance
of His favor and mercy through Christ, shall be
extended to every creature. <q>Every knee shall bow and
every tongue confess.</q> (Rom. 14:11.) And while this bowing
and confessing may at first be compulsory, yet the
Scriptures assure us that ultimately all who will not come
into heart harmony with the Lord and with all His gracious
arrangements and provisions, shall be cut off from
amongst the people,&mdash;in the Second Death. (Acts 3:23.)
So that ultimately, instead of the Universe being filled
with hundreds of millions who to all eternity will wail and
gnash their teeth and blaspheme God's holy name in agony&mdash;instead
of this the time shall come when every tongue
in Heaven and in earth shall be heard praising God, and
giving honor to Him that sitteth on the Throne and to the
Lamb, forever, for by that time all evildoers shall be cut
off. (Rev. 5:13.)</q>&mdash;Z. '00-311; Jer. 10:7.
</p>

<pb n='234'/><anchor id='Pg234'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For Thou only art holy.</hi>&mdash;<q>This song continues, and has
yet another strain. It declares, <q>Thou only art holy</q>. All
holiness, all perfection, wherever it is found, must proceed
from God, the great Fountain of holiness. How
strange, then, that any of God's dear people (and we ourselves
were once amongst this number) should so misunderstand
the Divine Character and Plan as to misrepresent
the same as being the very essence of unholiness, injustice,
unkindness, inequity, lovelessness, toward the
great mass of God's creatures!</q>&mdash;Z. '00-311.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For all nations shall come and worship before Thee.</hi>&mdash;<q>There
is still another strain in this song; and it is a
grand one also, like all the others,&mdash;reaching down into
the Millennial Age. It declares, <q>All nations shall come
and worship before Thee; for Thy judgments are made
manifest.</q> <q>All nations</q> will include, not only all the nations
then living, but all the nations of the dead, just as
does the promise which God made to Abraham, saying,
<q>In thy Seed [The Christ, Head and Body] shall all the
nations of the earth be blessed.</q> (Gen. 22:18.)</q>&mdash;Z. '00-311.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For [Thy] judgments are made manifest BEFORE THEE.</hi>&mdash;There
was a time when we could not sing this song (Psa.
137). We looked forward with dread to the time when the
Lord's judgments would be made manifest. We did not
see that the Judgment Day is a day of <q>assurance to all
men.</q> (Acts 17:31.) We did not see that the first judgment
day was against our race (Rom. 5:18), and that no
culprit can be on trial twice for the same offence. We did
not see that another Judgment Day, favorable to our race,
came at the time of our Lord's great victory over death
(John 12:31); nor did we see that our own, the Judgment
Day of the saints, is here and now. (1 Tim. 5:24; 1
Cor. 11:31; 1 Pet. 4:17.) We did perhaps note, our duty
of judging wolves by their greed, dogs by their quarrelsomeness,
swine by their interest in earthly things, thorns
by their disposition to wound and tear, and thistles by
their disposition to scatter seeds that cause trouble (Matt.
7:6, 16, 15); and some of us went beyond and began judging
one another (Rom. 14:13; Matt. 7:1). We never wanted
the Lord to do it, even though we do know that He will
bring every secret thing into judgment. (Prov. 15:3; Ecc.
12:14.) Now we see that the world's Judgment Day is a
thousand years long (Psa. 90:4; 2 Pet. 3:7, 8); we have
learned that a day is not always merely a 24-hour period.
(Gen. 2:4; Heb. 3:8; 2 Cor. 6:2.) We see now that our
Lord Jesus at the first Advent judged nobody (John 12:47;
Luke 12:14), but that God has exalted Him to be the
world's Judge (Acts 5:31) a Deliverer (Judges 3:9; Isa.
<pb n='235'/><anchor id='Pg235'/>
1:26); that He will have associate judges (1 Cor. 6:2;
Rev. 20:6); that His judgments will end war, promote
righteousness and aid the poor and needy (Isa. 2:4; 11:4;
26:9), destroy unrighteousness and bring in everlasting
peace and joy.&mdash;2 Thes. 1:7; Isa. 65:18; 1 Cor. 15:25; 1
Chron. 16:31; Psa. 96:13; Psa. 98:1-9; Psa. 72:1-14.
</p>

<p>
15:5. <hi rend='sans'>And after that I looked, and, [behold].</hi>&mdash;Another
vision of the same thing.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The Temple of the Tabernacle of the testimony in
heaven was opened.</hi>&mdash;Pastor Russell was given a clear,
beautiful, complete comprehension of the Plan of God as
revealed in the Tabernacle arrangements and sacrifices.
(Acts 7:44). This is the foundation of all his works.
</p>

<p>
15:6. <hi rend='sans'>And the seven angels came out of the Temple.</hi>&mdash;The
seven volumes of <hi rend='italic'>Scripture Studies</hi>, emerged, all in
harmony with the teachings of the Tabernacle, from which
they proceeded.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Having the seven last plagues.</hi>&mdash;Though counted as
plagues by ecclesiasticism they are in reality blessings,
destined to rid the earth of every obnoxious thing, not the
least of which are the great whore and harlots, large and
small, that have defiled the earth with their unclean doctrines.
(Rev. 17:5.) <q>Suppose that the salaries and <q>livings</q>
of all ministers, bishops, priests, etc., were cut off,
all churches, chapels and cathedrals destroyed, all theological
seminaries broken up, and their professors turned to
other pursuits, all religious guilds and societies disbanded,
including all sectarian organizations&mdash;what would be the
effect? Who can doubt that it would be a real blessing under
the disguise of a great and terrible catastrophe? The
effect would be to bring <emph>true</emph> Christians together as the
family of God, and not as sectarian bands; to study God's
Word, and not human traditions and creeds formulated in
the Dark Ages. The Scriptures seem to indicate that
very much of this sort of destruction of present systems
must take place before all the <q>wheat,</q> the true Church,
will be separated from the <q>tares,</q> the mere professors.</q>
(Z. '08-119.) <q>The Church, or company of believers, probationers
for coming glory, in its <q>voluntary association,</q>
was indeed to <emph>recognize</emph> <q>teachers,</q> <q>helps,</q> <q>Apostles,</q> etc.,
but not to <emph>make</emph> them. If they recognize a man <q>mighty in
the Scriptures,</q> <q>apt to teach,</q> they should be careful always,
even while rejoicing in and thanking God for such
a servant, to require a <q>thus saith the Lord</q> for every point
of doctrine, and to search the Scriptures daily to see
whether these things be so.</q>&mdash;Z. '08-120.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Clothed in pure [and white] BRIGHT linen.</hi>&mdash;<q>The <q>Linen
Girdle</q> indicated a righteous servant: linen&mdash;righteousness,
<pb n='236'/><anchor id='Pg236'/>
girdle&mdash;servitude.</q> (T. 30.) <q>A different word than in
Rev. 19:8. The word here used is suitable as describing
priestly attire and refers to ministrations on this side of
the veil.</q>&mdash;Cook.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And having their breasts girded with golden girdles.</hi>&mdash;<q>The
under-priests were robed in linen garments and wore
girdles. Their robes represented the righteousness of
Jesus, imputed to us, and their girdles represent us as
servants of righteousness.</q> (T. 36.) The <hi rend='italic'>Scripture Studies</hi>
are servants of the Church&mdash;righteous servants, clad in the
Lord's robe.&mdash;Rev. 1:13.
</p>

<p>
15:7. <hi rend='sans'>And one of the four beasts.</hi>&mdash;Heavenly Wisdom.&mdash;Rev.
4:7; Matt. 24:45; Jas. 1:5; 3:17; Ezek. 10:2, 7.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Gave unto the seven angels [seven] golden vials.</hi>&mdash;The
message of Present Truth. <q>The vial was the shallow bowl
in which they drew from the larger goblet.</q>&mdash;Cook; Psa.
79:6; Jer. 10:25; Zeph. 3:8.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Full of the wrath of God.</hi>&mdash;Against all untruth, injustice
and selfishness in organizations, Civil, Social, Ecclesiastical
and Financial.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Who liveth for ever and ever, Amen.</hi>&mdash;Whereas all of
those are to pass away.&mdash;Rev. 4:9, 10; 10:6.
</p>

<p>
15:8. <hi rend='sans'>And the temple was filled with smoke.</hi>&mdash;The nominal
Church is filled with confusion as the deformities of
her errors are made manifest.&mdash;Isa. 6:4.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>From the glory of God, and from His power.</hi>&mdash;As revealed
in His Word in this Harvest time.&mdash;2 Chron. 5:14.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And no man was able to enter into the temple.</hi>&mdash;No person
of mature thought. The large proportion of new
members now received in the various denominations is
from the Sunday School.&mdash;Rev. 9:20.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Till the seven plagues of the seven angels were fulfilled.</hi>&mdash;Until
the seven volumes of <hi rend='italic'>Scripture Studies</hi> were written,
published and circulated. Shortly afterward the true
Temple will be in readiness, wherein men, women and
children of all races and ages will find their hearts' hunger
satisfied.
</p>

<p>
<q>Yet once it is a little while, and I will shake the heavens,
and the earth, and the sea, and the dry land; and I
will shake all nations, and the desire of all nations shall
come: and I will fill this House with glory, saith the Lord
of hosts. The silver [the Great Company class that will
be used in connection with its ministrations] is Mine, and
the gold [the Little Flock, of which it will be composed]
is Mine, saith the Lord of Hosts. The glory of this latter
House shall be greater than the former, [the nominal
church], saith the Lord of Hosts; and in this place will I
give peace, saith the Lord of Hosts.</q>&mdash;Hag. 2:6-9.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='237'/><anchor id='Pg237'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Revelation 16&mdash;Ecclesiasticism's Seven Plagues</head>

<p>
16:1. <hi rend='sans'>And I heard a great voice out of the Temple.</hi>&mdash;Pastor
Russell was the voice of the Lord thus used. (Rev.
7:2; 10:3.) He was of the true Temple, and <q>out of</q> the
nominal temple at the time these plagues were poured out.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Saying to the seven angels.</hi>&mdash;The seven volumes of
<hi rend='italic'>Scripture Studies</hi>. See Rev. 8:2-5 and 14:17-20. <q>The
plagues upon Egypt were intended in some measure to
foreshadow, to illustrate, the plagues with which this Gospel
Age will end.</q> (F. 175.) Pastor Russell walked in the light.
When the plagues actually appeared, he no longer held to
the explanation published in 1883, before they appeared,
and so stated on many occasions.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Go your ways, and pour out the SEVEN vials of the wrath
of God upon the earth.</hi>&mdash;In the prefaces to the several volumes
of <hi rend='italic'>Scripture Studies</hi> such expressions abound as <q>I
send forth this volume with prayers,</q> <q>and now it is sent
forth in the faith,</q> etc., etc.
</p>

<p>
16:2. <hi rend='sans'>And the first went, and poured out his vial [upon]
INTO the earth.</hi>&mdash;Volume I was distributed among
those already under religious restraint.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And there fell a [noisome and] grievous AND NOISOME
sore.</hi>&mdash;The book seemed to ecclesiastics like an evil and
malignant ulcer, a painful, running sore, which eats, corrupts
and destroys.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Upon the men which had the mark of the beast.</hi>&mdash;Roman
Catholics.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And upon them which worshipped his image.</hi>&mdash;Protestants
affiliated with the Federal Council of Churches. Rev.
13:11; 13, 14, 15; 14:9, 11; 15:2; 16:13; 19:20; 20:10;
Matt. 24:24. Another view of the book, from the standpoint
of the clergy, is afforded by the plague of flies (Ex.
8:20-32.) It seemed to them like an old-time Egyptian
curse, with which they were quite familiar, namely, one
more of the Evangelistic firms already cursing society,
and interfering with the regular clergy business. <q rend='pre'>The
Scriptural details are as follows: The <foreign rend='italic'>arab</foreign> filled the
houses of the Egyptians, they covered the ground, they
lighted on the people, the land was laid waste on their
account. A biting, insidious creature, which comes like a
dart, with great noise, and, rushing with great impetuosity
<pb n='238'/><anchor id='Pg238'/>
on the skin, sticks to it most tenaciously. They boldly beset
cattle, and not only obtain ichor, as other flies, but also
suck out blood from beneath, and occasion great pain.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>They have no proboscis, but, instead, have double sets
of teeth, like wasps, which they infix deeply in the skin;
they greatly infest the ears of dogs. This genus is most
impudently pertinacious in its assaults, spares neither man
nor beast, gorges itself to bursting with blood, infusing an
irritating venom at the same time. No idea can be
formed of their obstinate rapacity. It is in vain to drive
them away; they return again in the self-same moment,
and their perseverance wearies out the most patient
spirit.</q> (McC.) These flies, flying a short distance into the
heavens, do their work around the dunghill of human tradition,
but the collections of one of them recently amounted
to $400,000 in eight American cities, so the business can
be made a money maker by those willing to cater to the
demand for sensationalism, and who have no hesitancy
in repeating ancient blasphemies against God's holy name.
</p>

<p>
These flies are called dog-flies, because they infest the
ears of dogs; and when it is remembered that the Scriptures
refer to the clergy as <q>dumb dogs</q> (Isa. 56:10, 11;
Phil. 3:2) we can readily see the application. The clergy
of an entire city will sit on a platform, facing virtually the
whole population, and hear themselves called liars, hypocrites,
false-alarms and other villainous names. But because
they hope to get a few <q>converts,</q> and therefore a
few shekels for the <q>sanctuary,</q> they will take it all meekly,
and prefer to take it rather than humbly admit one
item of truth in all Pastor Russell's beautiful writings.
After the firm has left town, they frequently bemoan the
treatment received and think longingly of the wherewithal
taken by the fly that was not satisfied with mere ichor,
but wanted the real blood.
</p>

<p>
At this point it may be well to explain the plagues of
frogs and lice. The former seems to represent the <hi rend='italic'>Old
Theology Quarterly</hi> which Pharaoh found everywhere
contaminating his kingdom, but which, at the hand of the
Lord, suddenly died out completely. The latter seems to
represent <hi rend='italic'>The Bible Students Monthly</hi>. There is no record
that the plague of lice was discontinued, and even yet
the Egyptians (people of the world) and Pharaoh (the
Devil) and his magicians (the clergy) scratch their heads
many a time, wondering how to deal with a plague which
they cannot duplicate.
</p>

<p>
16:3. <hi rend='sans'>And the second [angel] poured out his vial upon
the sea.</hi>&mdash;Volume II, <hi rend='italic'>Scripture Studies</hi> seemed to the beast
and his image to reach and affect only the discontented,
<pb n='239'/><anchor id='Pg239'/>
those who never were very subservient to the ruler of
this present evil world, or any of his systems.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And it became as the blood of a dead man.</hi>&mdash;After death
the blood separates into a watery liquid, called serum, and
a solid substance termed clot. As soon as this separation
takes place the clot begins to putrefy or corrupt. Thus it
seemed to worshipers of the beast and his image that anybody
that would accept the teachings of Volume II would
be in a hopeless condition.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And every living soul died in the sea.</hi>&mdash;To the worshipers
of the beast and his image it seemed as though such would
be lost and would surely go to hell to be tormented forever.
An <q>evangelist</q> who held these views called at the
home of a lady in Scranton. Entering the hall he saw an
elegant picture of Pastor Russell. Instantly he lost control
of what mind he had and vehemently said, <q>I called
here as a Christian minister, but I see you have old Russell's
picture here. Are you a follower of his?</q> The lady
replied that she was. He then said, <q>He is in hell, and
you will be there too, if you follow him.</q> Quick as thought
the lady reopened the door through which he had just entered,
invited him to the porch overlooking the valley; and
as he stood there gazing into space she said, <q>Tell it to the
atmosphere,</q> and left him while she attended to more important
duties.
</p>

<p>
Another picture of the effect of Volume II on the anti-typical
Egyptians may be seen from the plague of the murrain
(Ex. 9:1-7.) <q>This consisted in some distemper that
resulted in a sudden and dreadful mortality among the cattle
in the field, including horses, asses, camels, oxen and
sheep. It was, however, confined to the Egyptian cattle,
and to those that were in the field; for though the cattle
of the Hebrews breathed the same air, drank the same
water, and fed in the same pastures, not a creature of
theirs died. The Egyptian cattle that survived in the
sheds, and were afterwards sent into the fields, were destroyed
by the succeeding storm of fire and hail.</q> (McC.)
These creatures were valuable to the Egyptians. They
used them for bearing their burdens, for sacrifices and for
food. They represent the classes that go to make up the
nominal church and support it. Thus it seemed to the
worshippers of the Beast and his Image that the only way
to prevent the loss of all their live stock would be to keep
them securely impounded, allowing them no liberty whatever.
</p>

<p>
16:4. <hi rend='sans'>And the third [angel] poured out his vial upon
the rivers and fountains of waters.</hi>&mdash;It seemed to the worshippers
of the beast and his image that the teachings of
<pb n='240'/><anchor id='Pg240'/>
Volume III of the <hi rend='italic'>Scripture Studies</hi> had contaminated the
Scriptures, the Waters of Life, at their very source, by extending
the call to people to come out of Babylon while
they were busy trying to get people in.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And they became blood.</hi>&mdash;Seemed repulsive, undesirable,
bloody.&mdash;Z. '07-279; Ex. 7:20; Rev. 14:20.
</p>

<p>
Another view of how Volume III appears to the worshipers
of the beast and his image is shown by the plague of
boils described in Ex. 9:8-12. <q>The boil was a scab or pustule,
which might or might not break out into an ulcerous
sore (Lev. 13:18). With this, in one of its worst forms,
Job was afflicted (2:7), and by this Hezekiah was brought
to the verge of the grave. (2 Kings 20:7; Isa. 38:21.)
It was an eruption of a very painful kind accompanied
with a burning itch, tending to produce a permanent
state of foul and wasteful disease. One form of this disease
which seized upon the legs and knees, and was regarded
as incurable, was peculiar to Egypt, and was hence
called <q>the botch of Egypt.</q> (Deut. 28:27, 35.) In the case
before us, this eruption had a tendency to break out into
larger swellings and became probably the disease called
elephantiasis, a disease said to be peculiar to Egypt, or
the black leprosy, a disease which also affects cattle.</q>
(McC.) It was <q>ashes of the furnace,</q> loyalty to the
memory of the bullock, the one perfect Sacrifice for all,
Christ Jesus, that caused the boils; and it is particularly
noted that the magicians (clergy) could not withstand this
plague, the message, <q>Come out of her, My People.</q>
</p>

<p>
16:5. <hi rend='sans'>And I heard the angel of the waters.</hi>&mdash;Volume III,
<hi rend='italic'>Scripture Studies</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Say, thou art righteous, [O Lord] which art, and wast.</hi>&mdash;See
Rev. 1:4; 15:3; 19:2.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[And shalt be], THE HOLY.</hi>&mdash;The Lord, the Holy One,
was present, at the time Volume III was written.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Because Thou hast judged thus.</hi>&mdash;Made the beautiful
Harvest truths appear <q>bloody</q> to those not consecrated.
</p>

<p>
16:6. <hi rend='sans'>For they have shed the blood of saints and prophets.</hi>&mdash;Literally
and figuratively.&mdash;Matt. 23:34, 35; Rev.
13:15; 18:24.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And thou hast given them blood to drink; [for] THAT
WHEREOF they are worthy.</hi>&mdash;See Rev. 14:20; Isa. 49:26.
</p>

<p>
16:7. <hi rend='sans'>And I heard [another out of] the altar.</hi>&mdash;The
<q>Altar to the Lord in the midst of the land of Egypt</q> (Isa.
19:19) at the time these plagues are being poured out
upon the antitypical Egyptians, is the Great Pyramid, discussed
in a separate section of Volume III.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[Say] Saying Even so, Lord God Almighty.</hi>&mdash;The Lord
Jesus.&mdash;Rev. 1:8; John 5:22; Matt. 28:18.
</p>

<pb n='241'/><anchor id='Pg241'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>True and righteous are Thy judgments.</hi>&mdash;The teaching
of the Great Pyramid is in full accord with the rest of the
book. See Rev. 14:15. <q>It is by no means an addition to
the written revelation: that revelation is complete and perfect,
and needs no addition. But it is a strong <emph>corroborative
witness</emph> to God's Plan. Isaiah testifies of an altar and
pillar in the land of Egypt, which <q>shall be for a <emph>sign</emph> and
for a <emph>witness</emph> unto the Lord of hosts in the land of Egypt.</q>
And the context shows that it shall be a witness <emph>in the day</emph>
when the great Savior and Deliverer shall come to set at
liberty Sin's captives.</q>&mdash;C. 315.
</p>

<p>
16:8. <hi rend='sans'>And the fourth angel poured out his vial upon the
sun.</hi>&mdash;Volume IV of <hi rend='italic'>Scripture Studies</hi>, as soon as published,
was sent free to all clergy whose names could be
obtained. They are taught, and teach others, that they are
important luminaries in the heavens, suns, rivalling in
brilliancy and wisdom the Lord Himself, whose place they
take in the minds of the people, by setting forth their own
views on every subject, rather than the Lord's Word. Volume
IV, then, sent to this class, and calling attention to
Babylon's fall, seemed to them as the height of all presumption
in wickedness.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And power was given unto him to scorch men.</hi>&mdash;Greek
<q>The Men,</q> i. e., the worshipers of the beast and his image.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>With fire.</hi>&mdash;Perhaps some of the clergy became a trifle
warm as they read Volume IV, as their later conduct seems
to suggest. Why they should have disliked Pastor Russell
when he told the truth, and proved it, is remarkable.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And men.</hi>&mdash;Greek <q>The Men;</q> the clergy. In Rev. 8:9
the clergy are not so honored.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Were scorched with great heat.</hi>&mdash;Became warm, indignant
at the Pastor's kindly explanation of the whore and
the harlots, and the plainly evident application to the Papacy
and the Protestant sects.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And blasphemed the name of God, which hath power over
these plagues.</hi>&mdash;Misrepresented the name and character of
the mighty one, Pastor Russell, to whom the Lord committed
the task of presenting to His Church this meat in
due season. This misrepresentation burst like a storm
after the publication of Volume IV, <hi rend='italic'>Studies</hi>, and continued
until the Pastor's death, yea, and shame to say it, even
afterwards, in the columns of such sheets as the New York
World and the Brooklyn Eagle. What monuments of infamy
these people have reared for themselves! They
richly deserve all they will get when the tide turns.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And they repented not to give Him glory.</hi>&mdash;<q>One great
obstacle to many is the contracted idea generally entertained
of the meaning of the word god. They fail to note
<pb n='242'/><anchor id='Pg242'/>
that the Greek theos (god) does not invariably refer to Jehovah,
but signifies <hi rend='italic'>a mighty one</hi>. In the following texts the
word god (theos) is used to refer to others than the one
supreme being, Jehovah&mdash;viz.:&mdash;John 10:34, 35; Acts 7:40,
43; 17:23; 1 Cor. 8:5.</q>&mdash;B. 274.
</p>

<p>
Another view of how the publication of Volume IV looks
to the worshipers of the beast and his image is shown
in the plague of hail, described in Ex. 9:13-26. <q>The character
of this and the following plagues must be carefully
examined, as the warning seems to indicate an important
turning-point. The ruin caused by the hail was evidently
far greater than that effected by any of the earlier
plagues; for it destroyed men, which those others seem not
to have done, and not only men, but beasts and the produce
of the earth. In this case Moses, while addressing Pharaoh,
openly warns his servants how to save something from the
calamity. Pharaoh for the first time acknowledges his
wickedness.</q> (McC.) The appropriateness of these comments
to the subject matter of <q>The Day of Vengeance,</q>
or <q>The Battle of Armageddon</q>, (as it is now called) as
the latter would appear to the mind of the clergy, is self-evident.
Your true clergyman has the greatest abhorrence
for any truth that would tend to lessen men's reverence
for himself or the systems which he aims to perpetuate.
</p>

<p>
16:10. <hi rend='sans'>And the fifth [angel].</hi>&mdash;Volume V, of <hi rend='italic'>Studies</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Poured out his vial upon the seat of the beast.</hi>&mdash;Thoroughly
and scripturally analyzing the subjects of trinity,
human immortality and eternal torment, the foundation of
all Papal doctrine, as well as constituting a large part of
the stock in trade of the Protestant aggregation.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And his kingdom was full of darkness.</hi>&mdash;Complete ignorance
of the truths on these subjects as taught in the Bible.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And they gnawed their tongues for pain.</hi>&mdash;<q>Note the expression
of Rev. Samuel T. Carter in a Presbyterian journal&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>The
Evangelist</hi>. He says: <q>It must be admitted that
if a Church is honest, that which stands in its Confession to
its faith. It must be acknowledged that what is contained
in its Confession is the faith of any honest church. The
Westminster Confession of Faith is still the unquestioned
Confession of the Presbyterian Church. Is the Presbyterian
Church honest in its zeal for purity first and peace afterward?
Be it known, then, to all the world that the Presbyterian
Church by its Confession declares that all the
heathen perish, that many men are hopelessly lost from
all eternity by the decree of God, and that there are infants
in hell.... In reality the church does not believe
these dreadful doctrines. Then it stands before God
and man with a lie in its right hand.</q></q>&mdash;Z. '00-148.
</p>

<pb n='243'/><anchor id='Pg243'/>

<p>
16:11 <hi rend='sans'>And blasphemed the God of Heaven.</hi>&mdash;<q>In token
of entire allegiance to the beast.</q>&mdash;Cook.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Because of their pains [and their sores], and repented
not [of their deeds].</hi>&mdash;<q>The commotion amongst Presbyterians
continues&mdash;some standing firm for their church creed,
others repudiating it and begging to be released from it.
Many thus indirectly confess that they have despised it for
years, and have realized it to be a lie and a blasphemy
against God, and after confessing to this acting and confessing
a lie for years they beg to be released without cost
or loss either of human or Divine favor, and especially
without loss of bread and butter.</q> (Z. '00-148.) The way in
which Volume V, <hi rend='italic'>Scripture Studies</hi>, appeared to the worshipers
of the beast and his image is further illustrated in
the plague of locusts, described in Ex. 10:1-11. <q>This
plague has not the unusual nature of the one that preceded
it; but it even exceeds it in severity, and so occupies
its place in the gradation of the more terrible judgments
that form the latter part of the series. Its severity
can be well understood by those who have been in Egypt
in a part of the country where a plague of locusts has
alighted. In this case the plague was greater than any
ordinary visitation, since it extended over a far wider
space, rather than because it was more intense; for it is
impossible to imagine any more complete destruction than
that always caused by locusts.</q> (McC.) With what dismay
must the clergy have read the kind words for volume V,
which appeared in the columns of the secular press.
</p>

<p>
16:12. <hi rend='sans'>And the sixth [angel].</hi>&mdash;Volume VI of <hi rend='italic'>Studies in
the Scriptures</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Poured out his vial upon the great River Euphrates.</hi>&mdash;Seemed
to the worshipers of the beast and his image to
be instituting a new and horrible thing, a people's church,
in which there is no place for clergy, collections, church
edifices, reverence for one day above another, or in fact
any of the customs cherished in the nominal church.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the water thereof was dried up.</hi>&mdash;<q>Literal Babylon
was built upon the literal river Euphrates, while in the
Gospel age mystic or figurative Babylon, which carried
away captive Spiritual Israel, is portrayed as sitting upon
the mystic Euphrates. In the type, the golden vessels of
the Temple were carried away and profaned by literal
Babylon: in the antitype, the precious, Divine (golden)
truths, pertaining to the service of the true Temple, the
Church (1 Cor. 3:16, 17; Rev. 3:12), were far removed
from their proper places, perverted and misapplied by
mystic Babylon. Literal Babylon being built upon the
river Euphrates, which materially contributed to its wealth
<pb n='244'/><anchor id='Pg244'/>
and resources, its overthrow was accomplished by the
turning aside of those waters. So mystic Babylon sits
upon, is supported by, many waters (peoples, nations),
and its fall is predicted, through the turning aside of its
supporters and sustainers, the people.</q> (B. 209; Jer. 50:38,
51:36.) <q>Ecclesiastical circles in Germany are much exercised
at the rapidly increasing desertions from the State
Church. Although the process of official separation from
the Church is one of the greatest difficulty, delay and
expense, it is computed that in Berlin alone considerably
over 10,000 persons have severed their connection with the
Church during the past year. So great is the number of
those who are notifying their intention to terminate their
membership that special offices have been opened in Berlin
to receive their applications, which now number between
300 and 400 daily. Among the working classes, especially
those attached to the Social Democratic party, there exists
a bitter hostility to the clergy.</q>&mdash;Z. '09-83.
</p>

<p>
<q>A program for a general strike against the Church is
the latest plan of action. The <q>No-Creeders</q> (Monists)
in league with the Socialists, convened mass meetings in
Berlin, Brunswick and Saxony, in which every means of
incitation was employed in an appeal toward a secession
from the State Church. At these meetings over 1,300 persons
signed a declaration announcing their intention to
secede from the Church. Four thousand more followed, and
according to judicial court-records received towards the end
of December, 17,000 secessions took place in December up
to the 23d, and the day after Christmas 8,000 more announced
their intention. The following press reports may
serve as a typical illustration of the mode of procedure in
such meetings. <q>Without exception, every one who even
by vague allusion, ventured to take a stand for his Church
was howled down, hissed from the rostrum and subjected
to filthy invectives. To illustrate: When a minister ascended
the platform, the following was heard, <q>He looks
it!</q> <q>Old Sky-pilot!</q> And from another part of the hall
the same evening we heard the following words aimed
at the ministers: <q>Damned Rags!</q> <q>Pig-priests!</q> A gentleman
who interrupted was yelled at, <q>Rous mit the Parson-face!</q></q></q>&mdash;Z. '14-133.
</p>

<p>
<q>Reports in Great Britain show that Baptists, Congregationalists
and the various Methodist denominations there
are declining in numbers and prestige. The cause of this
is not far to see. Christianity has become merely another
name for decency and civilization. All doctrines are
abandoned as merely speculations. Churches are becoming
merely social clubs in which form and ceremony mark the
<pb n='245'/><anchor id='Pg245'/>
quality. This accounts for the growing unpopularity of
those sects which once stood for the highest standards
of earnestness and Christian zeal and liberty, non-conformity
and simplicity.</q> (Z. '10-324.) <q rend='pre'>The pastor of the
Fifth Avenue Baptist Church, New York City, Rev. Dr.
Charles F. Aked, who came to its direction from a London
pulpit, in his sermon Sunday said: <q>When I interview my
parishioners, and they are among the most representative
in the city, I find the spirit of religious depression very
unlike the spirit of abounding enterprise in business, in
manufacturing, in engineering and construction. There are
about 16,000,000 Catholics in continental United States.
Now, in our immigration for ninety years back, no less
than 15,000,000 were Catholics. If all remained loyal to its
tenets they would number 45,000,000 now instead of
16,000,000. The Protestants have lost ground, too, when
the filling up of the country is counted. Our own denomination,
the Baptists, reflects the general trend. The increase
among the Baptists of America has been equal to
only one-fourth of the birth rate among us, proving that
three out of four of our Baptist population have fallen
away from us. The decline of Christianity is universal.</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>In England, in France, in Spain, Italy and Germany we
hear the same cry. Only lately I was talking to an English
clergyman. He told me that not merely is there a great
falling off in church-goers in England, but that the class
of people who frequent churches is becoming inferior.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>The church is out of touch with the masses. Everything
has progressed except Christianity. The pulpit has too
many bigots, too many bores, too many <hi rend='italic'>hell-fire screechers</hi>
for the enlightened thought of the day. The church is
obliged to accept any applicant for the ministry who is
respectable. Even with this latitude, Baptist, Presbyterian
and Methodist vocations show a remarkable falling
off in twenty-five years.</q> (Z. '08-324.) <q>Rev. Charles A.
Eaton at the Euclid Avenue Baptist Church, Cleveland,
spoke as follows: <q>In Italy one-third of the people at the
very outside, are more or less nominal followers of the
Church of Rome; another third, possibly, are more or less
sympathetic toward the Church; while another third are
out and out continually and completely antagonistic, apparently,
not only to the Church of Rome, but to all forms
of Christianity. You enter France&mdash;the same story is true,
only aggravated and multiplied a thousand fold. You enter
Great Britain, which I consider to be the last citadel of
Christianity in the world, with a people more robust and
sane in their religious interests and sympathies than any
other people. And what is the condition there? The non-conformist
<pb n='246'/><anchor id='Pg246'/>
churches of Great Britain last year not only
made no progress, but met, according to their statistics,
with an absolute loss of 18,000; the Baptist Church of Great
Britain last year lost 5,000 people. In the year 1905 there
were nearly 7,000 Presbyterian, Congregationalist and
Methodist churches that had not one single member unite
with them in twelve months. In a recent year in New
York city, according to the statement of Dr. Aked, of the
Fifth Avenue Baptist Church, 335 Protestant churches
reported a net gain that year of 386 members. That is
to say 335 churches gained one member apiece and fifty
of them gained two in twelve months. Brethren, I say to
you this morning, that the American Church is dying&mdash;it
is dying! <emph>It is dying!</emph> Don't forget it.</q></q> (Z. '08-211.)
</p>

<p>
<q>A declaration by the Rev. Dr. Charles E. McClellan,
pastor of the Fairhill Baptist Church, that <q>Protestantism
in the United States is fast decaying and will soon be a
thing of the past,</q> aroused a storm at the fifty-third session
of the North Philadelphia Baptist Association. Doctor
McClellan spoke on what he called the decline of Protestantism
while making his report as chairman of the missionary
committee. <q>The spirit of Protestantism is dying
in the United States, and it will soon be a thing of the
past,</q> he said. <q>Philadelphia, both denominationally and
religiously, is going to perdition at a rapid rate. Recently
I attended the services in one of our churches, at which
I had been invited to speak. I found in attendance nineteen
adults and one child. The same condition exists all
over the city. We have large, magnificent churches, but
small congregations, showing that it is easy to get money,
but hard to get men.</q></q>&mdash;Z. '10-373.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That the way of the kings of the east might be prepared.</hi>&mdash;<q>He
must be comparatively blind who cannot see
that the wonderful prophecies which speak of the fall of
Babylon (Isa. 14:22; Jer. 50 and 51) were not wholly fulfilled
by Cyrus the Persian. Much of the prophecy still
waits for fulfillment in mystic or symbolic Babylon today.
The Kings of the East, or kings from the sunrising, are,
we understand, the kings of Christ's Kingdom, who are
also priests&mdash;the Body of Christ, the Royal Priesthood.
<q>Thou hast made us unto our God kings and priests, and
we shall reign on the earth.</q> From this standpoint, Cyrus,
who with his army overthrew literal Babylon, was a figure
or illustration of Messiah, King of kings and Lord of
lords. (Isa. 41:25; 44:28; 45:1-14.)</q>&mdash;Z. '99-174; Rev. 7:2.
</p>

<p>
16:13. <hi rend='sans'>And I saw three unclean spirits.</hi>&mdash;Denoting demoniacal
origin. (Matt. 10:1; Mark 1:26; Luke 4:33.)
<q>The Lord's people must discriminate between doctrines
<pb n='247'/><anchor id='Pg247'/>
presented to them as truth&mdash;they must <q>try the spirits,</q>
whether they be holy or evil, of God or of the Evil One&mdash;the
Spirit of Truth or the spirit of error. These both are
introduced by prophets, or teachers.</q>&mdash;E. <hi rend='italic'>320</hi>, 295.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[Like] AS IT WERE frogs.</hi>&mdash;Frogs are garrulous, have a
very wise look, large mouths, are much puffed up and
utter only croakings. In the <q>distress of nations with perplexity</q>
which has come upon Christendom as a result of
her sins, the croakings of the wise now fill the air everywhere.
Actually all knees are <q>weak as water.</q>&mdash;Ezek.
7:17; 21:7. See especially D. i-xvi.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Come out of the mouth of the dragon.</hi>&mdash;The three fundamental
truths of history are man's Fall, Redemption and
Restoration. Stated in other language these three truths
are the mortal nature of man, the Christ of God and His
Millennial Kingdom. Standing opposite to these Satan has
placed three great untruths, human immortality, the Antichrist
and a certain delusion which is best described as
race hatred&mdash;in reality murder, the spirit of the very Devil.
(1 John 3:15.) It is this last and crowning feature of
Satan's work that is mentioned first. The other two errors
are the direct cause of this one. The wars of the Old Testament
were all intended to illustrate the battlings of the
New Creature against the weaknesses of the flesh, and
are not in any sense of the word justification for the
human butchery practiced during the Christian era in the
name of religion, exemplified by the events of St. Bartholomew's
Day and by the wicked Inquisition. Nowhere in the
New Testament is hatred of other peoples encouraged.
Everywhere and always it is forbidden; and yet, under
one guise or another it has been encouraged for centuries
by the clergy class who should have been teaching the
people the message given them by the Prince of Peace.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And out of the mouth of the beast.</hi>&mdash;The Antichrist doctrine
of the Divine right of the clergy was the direct cause
of the great war. This frog has been coming out of the
mouth of the Papal beast for sixteen centuries. <q>These
false doctrines of the Dark Ages are bearing a terrible
fruitage at the present time. Similarly the teaching of
eternal torment, misrepresenting and blaspheming God's
character, is bearing an evil fruitage. Millions of people
are being turned away from faith in a God of Love and
from faith in the Bible as His Message by the most monstrous
blasphemies of the Dark Ages. I charge the responsibility
of all this against the sects and creeds of Christendom.
I charge that the ministers, whose eyes are now open
to a saner comprehension, have neglected the Bible, have
neglected the people, and, instead of helping them out of
the darkness, are now leading them into darkness in an
<pb n='248'/><anchor id='Pg248'/>
opposite direction&mdash;into Evolution and Higher Criticism
and everything contrary to the Word of God. God is still
misrepresented in the world. The creeds of the Dark Ages
are still hugged to the bosom in outward pretense, while
inwardly they are loathed. A great fraud, a great hypocrisy,
you say? I answer, Yes; the most astounding the
world has ever known. Two hundred thousand professed
ministers of God and of Christ are standing before the
world today telling the legends of the Dark Ages and seeking
to hinder the people from coming to a knowledge of
the Truth, meanwhile receiving the people's money and
reverence. Does not such hypocrisy, such blasphemy
against God, such deception of the people, such keeping of
them in darkness, deserve a great punishment, and is
it not nigh?</q>&mdash;B. S. M.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url="images/img256.png" rend="width: 60%">
    <head><q>Pollute Ye My Holy Name No More</q></head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And out of the mouth of the false prophet.</hi>&mdash;The one
cardinal error upon which all protestant (false prophet)
sects agree is the doctrine of human immortality, the
original lie told in Eden (Gen. 2:17, 3:4). In speaking
<pb n='249'/><anchor id='Pg249'/>
of it our Lord says, <q>When he speaketh <emph>the</emph> lie, he speaketh
of his own.</q> (John 8:44, Diaglott.) Speaking of it again,
the Apostle Paul says, of the worshipers of the beast and
his image, <q>They admitted not the love of the Truth that
they might be saved. And on this account God will send
to them an energy of delusion, to their believing the falsehood.</q>
(2 Thes. 2:10, 11.) In each case the Greek gives
the definite article. The frog issuing from the false
prophet (the image of the beast) is the doctrine of human
immortality. These deluded souls actually believe this
error, and will be able to prove it to the satisfaction of
the dragon, without a doubt. This error lies at the bottom
of the doctrines of eternal torment and of the trinity.
There is a hint in 1 John 4:1-3 that the cardinal error
on which the false prophet will insist is that when Jesus
came from the Father He was more than flesh, i. e., had
at least an immortal soul.&mdash;Rev. 13:11, 13, 14, 15; 14:9, 11;
15:2; 16:2; 19:20; 20:10; Matt. 24:24.
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>All Christian people credit the book of Revelation to our
Lord, as St. John does. (Rev. 1:1.) Therefore we are not
responsible for the symbolism used in that book. There are
so many ways in which one might be misunderstood, even
by good Christian people, that we naturally feel a delicacy
about expressing our views. As we proceed to set forth
our understanding of the symbols of the Revelation, we
wish to state most emphatically that we are saying nothing
whatever against godly Christians anywhere, at any
time, whether in any church or out of any church. We
have nothing to say respecting people. We discuss PRINCIPLES,
DOCTRINES, ALWAYS; individuals, NEVER!
God has not commissioned us to discuss <emph>people</emph>; it is ours
to discuss <emph>His Word</emph>.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Throughout the Bible, a Beast is the symbol used to
represent a government. In Daniel's prophecy the great
universal empires of the earth are thus symbolized. Babylon
was the Lion, Medo-Persia the Bear, Greece the Leopard,
and <emph>Rome</emph> the <emph>Dragon</emph>. (Dan. 7:1-8.) The Roman Empire
still persists. The Dragon, then, symbolizes the Roman
power, represented by the civil power in the world. The
Beast is the Papal system of government. The third symbol,
the False Prophet, remains to be interpreted. This,
we believe, is another name for the system elsewhere called
<q>the Image of the Beast.</q> (Rev. 13:14.) According to the
Scriptures, this Image is a very exact representation of
the Beast. The False Prophet, or Image of the Beast, we
understand to mean the Protestant Federation of Churches.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'><q>Three unclean spirits like frogs came out of the mouth
of the Dragon, and out of the mouth of the Beast, and
out of the mouth of the False Prophet.</q> In this passage,
<pb n='250'/><anchor id='Pg250'/>
the spirit is a doctrine&mdash;an unclean doctrine&mdash;a false doctrine.
Each of these systems will utter the same things,
and these utterances will have the effect of gathering the
kingdoms of earth together to the Battle of Armageddon.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>The symbolism of Scripture, rightly understood, is very
forceful, and there is always a close resemblance between
the symbol itself and the thing symbolized. When the
Holy Spirit uses a frog to represent certain doctrines or
teachings, we may be sure that the application will fit
well. While a frog is a small creature, yet it puffs itself
up until it almost bursts with the effort to be somebody.
A frog has a very wise look, even though it does not know
very much. Then a frog <emph>croaks</emph> whenever it utters a sound.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>The three most prominent characteristics of a frog,
then, are pomposity, an air of superior wisdom and knowledge,
and a continual croaking. Applying these characteristics
to the picture given in the Divine Word, we learn
that from kingly power, from the Catholic Church and from
the Federation of Protestant Churches, will go forth the
same teachings. The spirit of all will be boastful; an air
of superior knowledge and wisdom will be assumed; all
will foretell dire results to follow any failure to obey their
counsels. However conflicting the creeds, the differences
will be ignored in the general proposition that nothing
ancient must be disturbed, or investigated, or repudiated.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>The boasted Divine authority of the Church, and the
Divine right of kings aside from the Church, will not be
allowed to conflict; for both will be indorsed. Any persons
or teachings in conflict with these boastful, unscriptural
claims will be branded as everything vile, at the
mouths of the frogs, croaking from pulpits and platforms,
and through the religious and secular press. The nobler
sentiments of some will be strangled by the philosophy of
the same evil spirit which spoke through Caiaphas, the
high priest, respecting our Lord Jesus. As Caiaphas declared
it expedient to commit a crime in violation of justice,
both human and Divine, to be rid of Jesus and His
teachings, so this frog-like spirit will approve of any and
every violation of principle necessary to self-protection.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Every true Christian is ashamed to look back upon the
pages of history and see what terrible deeds were done in
the name of God and justice, and in the name of our Lord
Jesus. We are not to think for a moment that these frog
spirits, or doctrines, are all bad, but rather that they are
doctrines of bombast and pomposity, representing themselves
to be very wise and great, and having the backing
of centuries. Out of the mouth of the Dragon comes the
doctrine of the Divine right of Kings: <q>Do not look back
of the curtain of history to see where the kings got that
<pb n='251'/><anchor id='Pg251'/>
right. Accept the doctrine; for if you do not, and if men
look into the matter, there will be a terrible revolution and
everything will go down!</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>The Beast and the False Prophet have similar croakings.
The Catholic Church says, <q>Do not look behind! Do
not question anything about the Church!</q> Protestantism
says, also, <q>We are great, we are wise, we know a great
deal. Keep quiet! No one will then know that you know
nothing.</q> All say (croaking), <q>We tell you that if you say
anything against present arrangements, terrible things will
come to pass.</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Political parties are figuring in this. All declare, <q>If
any change should come, it will mean terrible disaster!</q>
Some have the backbone and some have the civil power
behind them, but unitedly they croak to the people that
if any change is made, it will mean ruin to the present
order. In the language of our day, <q>Stand pat!</q> is the
order in Church and in State; but the people are being
moved by fear. It is this croaking of the Beast, the Dragon
and the False Prophet that will arouse the kings of earth
and gather them together to the Armageddon Battle.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>The ecclesiastical kings and princes, with their retinue
of clergy and faithful adherents, will be gathered in solid
phalanx&mdash;Protestant and Catholic. The political kings and
kaisers, princes, and all in high places, with their henchmen
and retainers, will follow in line on the same side.
The financial kings and merchant princes, and all whom
they can influence by the most gigantic power ever yet
exercised in the world, will join the same side, according
to this prophecy. They do not realize, however, that they
are coming to Armageddon; yet strange to say, this is a
part of their very cry, <q>Come together to Armageddon!</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Speaking of our day, our Lord declared, <q>Men's hearts
failing them for fear and for looking after those things
which are coming on the earth; for the powers of heaven
shall be shaken.</q> (Luke 21:26.) The kings of Europe know
not what to do. All sectarianism is being shaken.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>The croaking of the frog spirits, or doctrines, will gather
the kings and princes, financial, political, religious and
industrial, into one great army. The spirit of fear, inspired
by the croaking, will scourge the passions of otherwise
good and reasonable men to fury&mdash;desperation. In
their blind following of these evil spirits, evil doctrines,
they will be ready to sacrifice life and everything on what
they mistakenly suppose is the altar of Justice, Truth and
Righteousness under a Divine arrangement.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Many noble people in this great army will assume an
attitude quite contrary to their preference. For a time
the wheels of liberty and progress will be turned backward,
<pb n='252'/><anchor id='Pg252'/>
and mediæval restraints will be considered necessary
for self-preservation&mdash;for the maintenance of the present
order of things and for the prevention of the new order
which God has decreed, the due time for which is at hand.
Even those who may be God's people do not stop to consider
whether it is His will that things should continue
as they have been for the past six thousand years. The
Bible says that such is not God's will, but that there is
to be a great overturning, that a new order is coming in.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>For a brief time, as we understand the Scriptures, these
combined forces of Armageddon will triumph. Free speech,
free mails, and other liberties which have come to be the
very breath of the masses in our day, will be ruthlessly
shut off on the plea of <emph>necessity</emph>, the glory of God, the commands
of the Church, etc. The safety-valve will be sat
upon, and thus will cease to annoy earth's kings with the
sound of escaping steam; and all will seem to be serene&mdash;until
the great social explosion described in the Revelation
as an <emph>earthquake</emph> will take place. In symbolic language
an earthquake signifies social revolution, and the Scriptural
declaration is that none like it ever before occurred.
(Rev. 16:18, 19.) Our Lord refers to it in Matt. 24:21.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>At this juncture, the Scriptures show, Divine Power will
step forward, and God will gather the marshaled hosts to
Armageddon&mdash;to the Mount of Destruction. (Rev. 16:16.)
The very thing which they sought to avert by their union,
federation, etc., will be the very thing that they will hasten.
Other Scriptures tell us that God will be represented by
Messiah, and that He will be on the side of the masses.
<q>At that time shall Michael [the Godlike One&mdash;Messiah]
stand up.</q> (Dan. 12:1.) He will assume authority. He
will take possession of His Kingdom in a manner little
looked for by many of those who erroneously have been
claiming to be His Kingdom, and authorized by Him to
reign in His name and in His stead.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Our Lord Jesus declared, <q>His servants ye are unto
whom ye render service.</q> Some may be rendering service
to Satan and to error, who claim to be rendering service
to God and to righteousness; and some may serve ignorantly,
as did Saul of Tarsus, who <q>verily thought that he
did God service,</q> in persecuting the Church. The same
principle holds true reversely. As an earthly king does
not hold himself responsible for the moral character of
each soldier who fights his battles, so the Lord does not
vouch for the moral character of all who enlist and fight
on His side of any question. His servants they are to whom
they render service, whatever the motive prompting them.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>The same principle will apply in the coming Battle of
Armageddon. God's side of that battle will be the people's
<pb n='253'/><anchor id='Pg253'/>
side; and that very nondescript host, the people, will be
pitted at the beginning of the battle. Anarchists, Socialists,
and hot-headed radicals of every school of reason and
unreason, will be in the forefront of that battle. He who
has any knowledge of army life knows that a great army
is composed of all classes.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>The masses will be restless under their restraints, but
will be conscious of their weakness as compared with the
kings and princes, financial, social, religious and political,
who will then hold sway. The masses have no sympathy
with anarchy. They realize truly that the worst form of
government is better than none. The masses will seek
relief through the ballot and the peaceful readjustment
of earth's affairs for the elimination of evil, for the placing
of monopolies and utilities and the supplies of nature
in the hands of people for the public good. The crisis will
be reached when the hitherto upholders of the law shall
become violators of the law and resisters of the will of
the majority as expressed by the ballot. Fear for the
future will goad the well-meaning masses to desperation,
and anarchy will result when Socialism fails.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>The Lord's saints are not to be in this battle at all.
God's consecrated people, longing at heart for Messiah's
Kingdom and the glorious Year of Jubilee and Restitution
which it will inaugurate, will patiently abide the Lord's
time, and wait unmurmuringly for it. Their lamps trimmed
and burning, they will not be in darkness respecting the
momentous events of the impending battle; but they will
be of good courage, knowing the outcome portrayed in the
<q>more sure word of prophecy,</q> to which they have done
well to <q>take heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark
place, until the Day dawn.</q>&mdash;2 Pet. 1:19.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>The question now arises, Why did not God send His
Kingdom sooner? Why is Armageddon necessary? We
answer that God has His own times and seasons, and that
He has appointed the Great Seventh Thousand-Year Day
for the reign of Christ. Divine Wisdom has withheld
until our day the great knowledge and skill which is breeding
at the same time millionaires and discontents. Had
God lifted the veil of ignorance a thousand years sooner,
the world would have lined up for Armageddon a thousand
years sooner. God did not bring these things before the
present time because His Plan has various parts, all of
which are converging at the same time. In kindness God
veiled the eyes of mankind until the gathering to Armageddon
would immediately precede Messiah's taking to Himself
His great power and beginning His reign.</q> (Rev.
11:17, 18.)&mdash;D. v-xvi.
</p>

<pb n='254'/><anchor id='Pg254'/>

<p>
16:14. <hi rend='sans'>For they are the spirits of devils.</hi>&mdash;See Eph. 6:12.
<q>We are naturally led by the analogy of the influence of
evil spirits as described in the Gospels to compare the
<emph>effect</emph> produced by the demons referred to in this verse,
with the instances of <emph>possession</emph> of which we read elsewhere
in the New Testament.</q>&mdash;Cook.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Working miracles.</hi>&mdash;It is very possible that the strongest
<q>proof</q> of the immortality of man will yet be obtained
by the false prophet through materializations of evil spirits,
perhaps first at preachers' meetings, and afterwards in
public. We will wait and see. Meantime: the mental
invasions indicated in Rev. 7:3 and 2 Thes. 2:11 will
<emph>surely</emph> come, whether the physical materializations come
or not.&mdash;Rev. 13:13, 14.
</p>

<p>
<q>The newspapers far and near are publishing the following
item: <q>Fred E. Foskett, a young machinist of
Orange, Mass., has attracted the attention of Prof. James,
of Harvard, and other leading members of the Boston
branch of the American Society of Psychical Research, who
gave him tests recently. Foskett poured a quart of alcohol
into the basin, lighted it and then washed his hands,
bathing them for nearly ten minutes in the burning fluid,
washing it up over his arms and to his face&mdash;literally
bathing himself in blazing alcohol. As soon as they were
finished the physicians present examined Foskett, and they
could not find the slightest trace of a burn or blister.
Foskett then told them that the flames did not give him
the slightest sensation of burning, that he felt comfortably
warm and pleasant, and nothing more. The second tests
were made at the home of Prof. James in Cambridge. A
scientist who was there said that Foskett performed all
of his experiments of the day before, and then <q>absolutely
and positively dematerialized</q>. He seemed to dissolve into
thin air as we watched, was gone forty-one seconds and
then materialized.</q></q>&mdash;Z. '09-83; Matt. 24:24; 2 Thes. 2:9.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which go forth unto the kings of the [earth and of the]
whole world, to gather them to the battle of [that] THE
great Day of God Almighty.</hi>&mdash;Of which the present horrible
European war is only the preliminary skirmish.&mdash;Rev.
17:14; 19:19.
</p>

<p>
<q>This battle, which will end with the complete overthrow
of earth's present rulership, is already commenced.
The gathering of the armies is plainly visible from the
standpoint of God's Word. The Sword of Truth, already
sharpened, is to smite every evil system and custom&mdash;civil,
social and ecclesiastical. The internal conflict is already
fomenting. It will ere long break forth as a consuming
fire; and human systems, and errors, which for centuries
<pb n='255'/><anchor id='Pg255'/>
have fettered truth and oppressed the groaning creation,
must melt before it. Yes, truth&mdash;and widespread and
increasing knowledge of it&mdash;is the Sword which is perplexing
and wounding the heads over many countries.</q>
(Psa. 110:6; B. 101.) <q>Not until great Babylon is utterly
overthrown and her influence over the world broken&mdash;will
the great mass of mankind come to realize the true state
of the case. Then they will see that the great trouble
through which they will have passed was that symbolically
termed <q>The battle of the great Day of God Almighty;</q> that
in proportion as they have aided error and wrong, they
have been battling against the law and forces of the new
Empire and the new Ruler of earth; and that in proportion
as their tongues, and pens, and hands, and influence, and
means, were used to support <emph>the right</emph> and the truth on
any subject, they had been to that extent fighting on the
Lord's side. And during all the trouble there will be in
the world those who will bear witness to its cause, declaring
the Lord's presence and the setting up of His
Kingdom which is in opposition to the powers of darkness
to be the real cause of the trouble and shaking and overturning
of society.</q>&mdash;B. 141.
</p>

<p>
16:15. <hi rend='sans'>Behold, I come as a thief.</hi>&mdash;A thief comes unexpectedly,
for the purpose of securing jewels only.&mdash;Mal.
3:17; 2 Pet. 3:10; Rev. 3:3; Matt. 24:42-44; 1 Thes. 5:2.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Blessed is he that watcheth.</hi>&mdash;<q>Because not heedless,
careless, indifferent servants of the King, but faithful and
earnest ones, the Watchers discern that there are three
words of distinctly different signification, used in respect
to the Lord's Second Advent; namely, parousia and epiphania
and apokalupsis. Parousia is used in respect to the
earliest stage of the Second Advent, while apokalupsis
relates to the same Advent later.</q> (Z. '02-86.) <q>The Greek
words apokalupsis and apokalupto signify revealment,
uncovering, unveiling (as of a thing previously present but
hidden). The name of the last book of the Bible is from
the same root&mdash;Apocalypse or Revelation.</q>&mdash;Z. '02-92; 1 Cor.
1:7; 1 Pet. 1:7; Lu. 17:29, 30.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And keepeth his garments.</hi>&mdash;Holds fast to his pledge of
consecration even unto death.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Lest he walk naked.</hi>&mdash;As the nominal churches are doing
even since the war council at Washington, May 6, 1917.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And they see his shame.</hi>&mdash;During the apokalupsis epoch
now at hand. (Rev. 3:18.) <q>The exposure to the world
that they lack what constitutes the Christian state.</q>&mdash;Cook.&mdash;Matt.
5:43, 44.
</p>

<p>
16:16. <hi rend='sans'>And [he] THEY gathered them together.</hi>&mdash;The
three unclean spirits do the gathering.&mdash;Rev. 19:19.
</p>

<pb n='256'/><anchor id='Pg256'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Unto a place called in the Hebrew tongue [Armageddon]
ARMAGEDON.</hi>&mdash;<q>The fact that St. John has employed a
word (Har-Magedon), <q>The destruction of their troop,</q> not
found in connection with any locality or historical event of
itself points to a figurative interpretation. (Zech. 12:11.)
Nor indeed are we to think of literal warfare.</q> (Cook.)
<q>The word <q>mountain</q> in the term Armageddon&mdash;<q>Mountain
of Megiddo</q>&mdash;seems to have been used because Megiddo was
in a mountainous region, though the battles were fought
in a valley adjacent. The meaning here is, that there
would be, as it were, a decisive battle which would determine
the question of the prevalence of true religion on
the earth. What we are to expect as the fulfillment of this
would seem to be, that there will be some mustering of
strength&mdash;some rallying of forces&mdash;some opposition made
to the Kingdom of God in the gospel by the powers here
referred to which would be <emph>decisive</emph> in its character.</q>
(Barnes.) Another view of Volume VI, <hi rend='italic'>Scripture
Studies</hi>, as it appeared to the worshipers of the beast
and his image, may be had in the plague of darkness upon
the Egyptians described in Ex. 10:21-29. The 3-½ days
of terrible darkness over the land of Egypt represent the
3-½ years of the great war and indicate its close shortly
after the publication of this final witness of the church.
While this plague was still in progress, Moses said to
Pharaoh, <q>I will see thy face again no more.</q> It is even
so; Pastor Russell passed forever out of reach of the antitypical
Pharaoh, Satan, in the fall of 1916. But in steadfast
belief that <q>his works do follow him,</q> we hold that he
supervises, by the Lord's arrangement, the work yet to
be done. See Rev. 16:1.
</p>

<p>
16:17. <hi rend='sans'>And the seventh [angel].</hi>&mdash;Volume VII, <hi rend='italic'>Scripture
Studies</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Poured out his vial [into] UPON the air.</hi>&mdash;Seemed to
the clergy to be directed against the ruling powers. <q>The
terrors of the revelation of Christ will thus appear spread
out over the Universe.</q>&mdash;Cook.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And there came a great voice.</hi>&mdash;An earnest and vigorous
setting forth of this prophecy and that of Ezekiel.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Out of the Temple of [Heaven, from the Throne,] GOD.</hi>&mdash;The
true Church.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Saying, it is done.</hi>&mdash;See title of this book.&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Ezek. 9:11.</hi>
</p>

<p>
16:18. <hi rend='sans'>And there were [voices, and] thunders.</hi>&mdash;Seven
of them&mdash;indicating wide-spread interest in the <hi rend='italic'>Scripture
Studies</hi>. There will probably also be some thundering by
the esteemed clergy. If in the past they had thundered
less and lightened more, the world would not be in its present
predicament.&mdash;Rev. 8:5.
</p>

<pb n='257'/><anchor id='Pg257'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And lightnings.</hi>&mdash;A good lighting up of the dark places
of the ecclesiastical firmament.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>AND VOICES.</hi>&mdash;The <q>voices</q> of the Great Company, who,
after the Little Flock have gone beyond, will display unparalleled
energy and faithfulness amid unparalleled difficulty.&mdash;Rev.
11:15; 8:5.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And there was a great earthquake.</hi>&mdash;Social revolution.
The same mentioned in Rev. 8:5; 11:19 and 1 Kings 19:11,
12, following the War.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Such as was not since men were upon the earth.</hi>&mdash;World-wide
socialism, an unprecedented and sure-to-fail experiment
in government.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>So mighty an earthquake, and so great.</hi>&mdash;The following
is from an address given to the Chicago Bankers Club in
December, 1916, by Frank A. Vanderlip, president of the
National City Bank of New York. <q>State socialism in
Europe may develop problems, the like of which never
concerned our minds. We may have to meet collective
buying, State aided industries, forms of governmental control
of ocean borne commerce and novel factors in international
finance. There may come out of the war changes
in forms of government that will have profound and world-wide
influence.</q>
</p>

<p>
16:19. <hi rend='sans'>And the great city was divided into three parts.</hi>&mdash;Christendom
is now divided into three parts: Socialistic
Russia, Imperial Teutonia, and the Representative Governments
of the West; but we think a religious division is
coming: The Greek church, the Papacy and the False
Prophet Protestant aggregation, all under papal control.
Or the city of Rev. 14:20, may be meant.&mdash;2 Ki. 2:10, 12, 15.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the [cities] CITY of the nations fell.</hi>&mdash;The reference
is to Rome, the <q>city</q> mentioned in Rev. 17:18. By Rome
is meant the Papacy. All other kings have already drunk
deeply of the wrath of God and Sheshach's turn has come.&mdash;Jer.
25:26; Rev. 14:8.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And great Babylon came in remembrance before God.</hi>&mdash;<q>The
fall of Babylon will astonish the entire world, so complete
is the illusion that Christendom represents the Throne
and Government of Messiah among men. And, be it remembered,
the vast majority in all the various sects and
denominations of Christendom are worldly people who
have no conception whatever of the true Church and her
cause. Their ambition is to approximate righteousness and
a form of godliness, but no more than this seems to them
necessary, since they have not been begotten of the Holy
Spirit and therefore cannot appreciate things from the divine
standpoint.</q>&mdash;Pastor Russell. See Rev. 18:5.
</p>

<pb n='258'/><anchor id='Pg258'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To give unto her the cup of the wine of the fierceness of
[His] THE wrath.</hi>&mdash;The wine of the vine of the earth.&mdash;Rev.
14:17-20; Jer. 8:14; Isa. 51:17-20; Jer. 25:26-28; Rev. 18:6.
</p>

<p>
16:20. <hi rend='sans'>And every island fled away.</hi>&mdash;Even the republics
will disappear in the fall of 1920.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the mountains were not found.</hi>&mdash;Every kingdom of
earth will pass away, be swallowed up in anarchy.
</p>

<p>
16:21. <hi rend='sans'>And there fell upon men.</hi>&mdash;Greek <q>The Men,</q> the
worshipers of the beast and his image, i. e., the clergy.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>A great hail out of heaven.</hi>&mdash;Truth, compacted, coming
with crushing force. A concluding statement
of how the seventh volume of <hi rend='italic'>Scripture Studies</hi> appears
to the worshipers of the beast and his image.&mdash;Rev.
11:19; Isa. 28:17; 30:30; Ezek. 13:11; Joshua 10:11.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Every stone about the weight of a talent.</hi>&mdash;113 lbs. (Mal.
3:10.) Another view of the seventh volume of <hi rend='italic'>Scripture
Studies</hi>, as it appears to the worshipers of the beast and
his image, is found in the last of the Egyptian plagues,
the death of the first-born, Exodus 11th. and 12th. chapters.
As soon as this plague came the Egyptians, from Pharaoh
down, were anxious to speed the parting guest, and willing
to give up all the jewels of silver (the Great Company) and
the jewels of gold (the Little Flock). In connection with
the statement that <q>there was not a house where there
was not one dead,</q> it is admitted that if any sects were
overlooked in the lists cited in comments on Rev. 8th and
9th chapters the omission was unintentional and will be
corrected in later editions. The three days in which Pharaoh's
host pursued the Israelites into the wilderness represent
the three years from 1917 to 1920 at which time all
of Pharaoh's messengers will be swallowed up in the sea of
anarchy. The wheels will come off their chariots&mdash;organizations.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And men blasphemed God because of the plague of the
hail.</hi>&mdash;Apparently, the book will be unpopular for a time.
<q>As soon as Divine restraints upon Satan were released,
he moved the Sabeans to steal Job's cattle and to kill his
servants; he caused fire to come down from heaven, which
not only killed but burned up Job's flocks of sheep; he sent
the Chaldeans who stole Job's camels, and finally produced
a cyclone which smote the house in which Job's children
were feasting together, and destroyed the house and killed
its occupants; and he attacked Job's person with disease
as soon as granted permission. (Job. 1:9-2:7.)</q>&mdash;S. 80.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For the plague thereof was exceeding great.</hi>&mdash;Quite a
shower.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='259'/><anchor id='Pg259'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Revelation 17&mdash;The Papacy's Last Stand</head>

<p>
17:1. <hi rend='sans'>And there came one of the seven angels.</hi>&mdash;Volume
VII, <hi rend='italic'>Studies in the Scriptures</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which had the seven vials.</hi>&mdash;An explanation of the
plagues upon symbolic Babylon.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And talked with me.</hi>&mdash;The John class, the Church in the
flesh.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Saying [unto me] Come hither; I will shew unto thee.</hi>&mdash;In
the 8th, 9th, 16th and 18th chapters of Revelation, and
throughout the Book of Ezekiel.&mdash;Nahum 3:3, 4.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The judgment of the great whore.</hi>&mdash;Papacy, the <q>beast.</q>&mdash;Rev.
19:2.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That sitteth upon many waters.</hi>&mdash;The peoples of the
earth.&mdash;Jer. 51:13; Rev. 17:15.
</p>

<p>
17:2. <hi rend='sans'>With whom the kings of the earth have committed
fornication.</hi>&mdash;<q>The kingdoms of Europe today claim to be
Christian kingdoms, and announce that their sovereigns
reign <q>by the grace of God,</q> i. e., through appointment of
either Papacy or some of the Protestant sects.</q>&mdash;A. 268;
Rev. 18:3; Isa. 1:21; Jer. 2:20-24; 3:6; Ezek. 16:15.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the inhabitants of the earth have been made drunk.</hi>&mdash;<q>So
great an institution as made all nations drunk with her
false doctrine must be very prominent, indeed, to those
who were made so under the influence of the stupefying
draft from her cup.</q>&mdash;Pastor Russell.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>With the wine of her fornication.</hi>&mdash;The mixed doctrines,
part truth and part error, that originally led to the union
of church and state,&mdash;the spiritual harlotry.&mdash;Jer. 51:7;
Rev. 2:20; 17:5; 18:3; 19:2.
</p>

<p>
17:3. <hi rend='sans'>So he carried me away in the spirit into the wilderness.</hi>&mdash;<q>All
who would get a true view of Babylon must, in
spirit, take their position with the true people of God 'in
the wilderness'&mdash;in the condition of separation from the
world and worldly ideas and mere forms of godliness, and
in the condition of entire consecration and faithfulness to
and dependence upon God alone.</q>&mdash;D. 27.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And I saw a woman.</hi>&mdash;The Roman Catholic Church.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Sit upon a scarlet colored beast.</hi>&mdash;Pagan Rome, and its
successors.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Full of names of blasphemy.</hi>&mdash;<q>From Ferraris' <hi rend='italic'>Ecclesiastical
Dictionary</hi>, a standard Roman Catholic authority, we
<pb n='260'/><anchor id='Pg260'/>
quote the following condensed outline of papal power as
given under the word <foreign rend='italic'>papa</foreign>, article 2nd: <q>The pope is of
such dignity and highness that he is not simply a man but,
as it were, God, and the vicar [representative] of God....
Hence the pope is crowned with a triple crown, as
king of heaven, of earth and of hell. Nay, the pope's excellence
and power are not only about heavenly, terrestrial
and infernal things, but he is also above angels, and is
their superior; so that if it were possible that angels could
err from the faith, or entertain sentiments contrary thereto,
they could be judged and excommunicated by the pope....
He is of such great dignity and power that he
occupies one and the same tribunal with Christ; so that
whatsoever the pope does seem to proceed from the mouth
of God.... The pope is, as it were, God on earth, the
only prince of the faithful of Christ, the greatest king of
all kings, possessing the plenitude of power; to whom the
government of the earthly and heavenly kingdom is entrusted.</q>
He further adds: <q>The pope is of so great authority
and power that he can modify, declare or interpret
the Divine Law.</q> <q>The pope can sometimes counteract the
Divine Law by limiting, explaining, etc.</q></q>&mdash;B. 310.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Having seven heads and ten horns.</hi>&mdash;See Rev. 12:3; 13:1:
17:9-12; Dan. 7:7, 20; Rev. 5:6; 1 Sam. 2:10; Deut. 33:17;
1 Ki. 22:11.
</p>

<p>
17:4. <hi rend='sans'>And the woman was arrayed in purple.</hi>&mdash;Symbolizing
the apostate church's claim to royalty. <q>I sit a queen
and am no widow.</q>&mdash;Rev. 18:7, 12, 16.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And scarlet color.</hi>&mdash;Symbolizing her claims to share in
Christ's work of sacrifice, in the doctrine of the mass.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And decked with gold.</hi>&mdash;Symbolizing her claim that she
includes in her membership all the true Church of God,
those who shall ultimately attain the Divine nature.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And precious stones.</hi>&mdash;Symbolizing her claim that she is
the sole custodian of the Lord's precious jewels of truth
and character.&mdash;1 Cor. 3:12; Mal. 3:17.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And pearls.</hi>&mdash;Symbolizing her claim that she has sole
power over all that the Lord bought by His death.&mdash;Matt.
13:45, 46.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Having a golden cup in her hand.</hi>&mdash;Symbolizing her claim
that she is the repository of all Truth Divine.&mdash;Jer. 51:7.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Full of abominations and [filthiness] FILTHINESSES of
[her] THE fornication OF HER AND OF THE EARTH.</hi>&mdash;<q>Babylon
hath been a golden cup in the Lord's hand, that
made all the earth drunken; the nations have drunken of
her wine; therefore the nations are mad [intoxicated with
her errors]. (Jer. 51:7-9.)</q>&mdash;C. 156; Rev. 18:6; Isa. 65:4.
</p>

<pb n='261'/><anchor id='Pg261'/>

<p>
17:5. <hi rend='sans'>And upon her forehead [was a name written].</hi>&mdash;In
plain sight of all the spiritually minded. (And how strange
it is that <emph>everybody</emph> does not see it!)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Mystery.</hi>&mdash;<q>We have already called attention to the fact
that the Church of Christ is called in the Scriptures the
<q>Mystery of God,</q> because, contrary to expectation, the
Church was to be the Messianic <emph>Body</emph> which, under its
Anointed Head, Jesus, shall rule and bless the world. We
have also drawn attention to the fact that the Scriptures
refer to Babylon as a counterfeit system (mother and
daughters&mdash;some more and some less corrupt, some better
and some poorer counterfeits), and there designated the
<q>Mystery of Iniquity.</q> We are to remember that it is Satan
who in the Scriptures is credited with having <q>deceived
the whole world</q> on this subject; putting evil for good
and good for evil; light for darkness and darkness for
light. Satan <q>now worketh in the children of disobedience</q>
(Isa. 5:20; Eph. 2:2) even as he proffered his cooperation
to our Lord Jesus.</q>&mdash;F. 199; 2 Thes. 2:7; Prov. 5:6.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Babylon the Great, the mother of harlots and abominations
of the earth.</hi>&mdash;<q>Since Papacy, the mother, is not a
single individual, but a great religious system, in keeping
with the symbol we should expect to see other religious
systems answering to the illustration of daughters of similar
character. To this description the various Protestant
organizations fully correspond. The daughter systems
parted from the mother under circumstances of travail,
and were born virgins.</q> (D. 29.) <q>But some sincere
Christians may still be anxiously inquiring,&mdash;<q>If all Christendom
is to be involved in the doom of Babylon, what will
become of Protestantism, the result of the Great Reformation?</q>
This is an important question; but let the reader
consider that Protestantism, as it exists today, is not the
result of the Great Reformation, but of its decline.</q>&mdash;D. 28;
Ezek. 16:44; Hos. 2:2-5; Isa. 1:21; Rev. 18:9; 19:2.
</p>

<p>
<q>The claims of apostolic succession and clerical authority
are almost as presumptuously set forth by some of
the Protestant clergy as by the Papal priesthood. And the
right of individual private judgment,&mdash;the very fundamental
principle of the protest against Papacy, which led
to the Great Reformation,&mdash;is now almost as strenuously
opposed by Protestants as by Papists. Protestants seem
to have forgotten,&mdash;for they truly ignore,&mdash;the very grounds
of the original protest, and, as systems, they are fast drifting
back toward the open arms of the <q>Holy (?) Mother
Church.</q> <q>Let us hold out to you our hand affectionately</q>
(says Pope Leo to Protestants in his famous Encyclical addressed
<q>To the Princes and Peoples of the Earth</q>), <q>and
<pb n='262'/><anchor id='Pg262'/>
invite you to the unity which never failed the Catholic
church, and which never can fail. Long has our common
mother called you to her breast.</q> The doctrine of <q>the
Divine right of kings,</q> taught or supported by almost every
sect, is the foundation of the old civil system, and has
long given authority, dignity and stability to the kingdoms
of Europe; and the doctrine of the Divine appointment and
authority of the clergy has hindered God's children from
progressing in Divine things and bound them by the chains
of superstition and ignorance to the veneration and adoration
of fallible fellow-beings, and to their doctrines, traditions
and interpretations of God's Word. It is this entire
order of things that is to fall and pass away in the battle
of this great day&mdash;the order of things which for centuries
has held the people docile under the ruling powers, civil,
social and religious. All this has been by God's <emph>permission</emph>
(not by his appointment and approval, as they claim). But
though an evil in itself, it has served a good, <emph>temporary</emph>
purpose in preventing anarchy, which is immeasurably
worse, because men were not prepared to do better for
themselves, and because the time for Christ's Millennial
Kingdom had not yet come. Hence God permitted the
various delusions to gain credence in order to hold men in
check until <q>The Time of the End</q>&mdash;the end of <q>The Times
of the Gentiles</q> (which expired October 1, 1914).</q>&mdash;D. 33.
</p>

<p>
17:6. <hi rend='sans'>And I saw the woman drunken with the blood of
the saints.</hi>&mdash;<q><q>But the blood of Protestants is not called
the blood of saints, no more than the blood of thieves, man-killers,
and other malefactors, for the shedding of which,
by the order of justice, no commonwealth shall answer.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Rhemish
(Catholic) translation, footnote.</hi></q> (B. 320.) <q><q>She
wore out the saints of the most high God.</q> and <q>was
drunken with the blood of the saints.</q>&mdash;Rev. 18:24.</q>&mdash;Z. '04-236;
Rev. 16:6.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus.</hi>&mdash;Most of
these martyrs will doubtless be honored by a place in the
Great Company. (See Rev. 7:9.) This Scripture was fulfilled
in the Dark Ages, but we are still <emph>in</emph> the Dark Ages,
and will be until this system is destroyed. It takes more
than a mere profession of faith to make a Christian.
<q>Jezebel today has daughters&mdash;systems termed Protestant&mdash;which,
nevertheless, copy largely the mother's spirit. It
is through the influence of the daughters that the anti-typical
Elijah may expect future persecutions, instigated
by the mother, accomplished through the daughters, as
typically represented in the case of John the Baptist, beheaded
by Herod at the instance of Salome, but at the
instigation of Herodias&mdash;Jezebel.</q>&mdash;Z. '04-237.
</p>

<pb n='263'/><anchor id='Pg263'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And when I saw her.</hi>&mdash;Discerned her true character.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>I wondered with great admiration.</hi>&mdash;<q>With great wonder</q>
(Diaglott), that the Lord would permit such an institution
to exist.
</p>

<p>
17:7. <hi rend='sans'>And the angel.</hi>&mdash;Volume VII, <hi rend='italic'>Scripture Studies</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Said unto me.</hi>&mdash;See Revelation, Chapters 4, 5 and 6.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Wherefore dost thou marvel.</hi>&mdash;This is all quite right and
necessary. The Papacy was foreseen and permitted as a
part of God's wonderful plan for developing and testing
His Church, proving who are worthy to be of the First
Resurrection, joint-heirs with Christ.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>I will tell thee the mystery of the woman.</hi>&mdash;The apostate
Church of Rome.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And of the beast that carrieth her.</hi>&mdash;Pagan Rome, now
represented in earth's warring governments.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which hath seven heads and ten horns.</hi>&mdash;See Rev. 12:3;
13:1. The exposition of the remainder of this chapter was
greatly assisted by the following letter: <q rend='pre'>Your request for
my version of what I understood Bro. Russell's expectations
to be respecting the fulfillment of the 17th Chapter of
Revelation received and after considerable meditation
upon the matter I have decided to submit the following:
Brother Russell stated that there were three possible fulfillments
of this Chapter, and that he did not or would
not go on record as to which would be the correct interpretation,
for the reason that this Chapter could not be
interpreted in a positive way until after its fulfillment.
He stated that this Chapter was the key to all of the
pictures, or prophecies, of Revelation, which are as yet
wrapped in mystery. On various occasions I requested
Bro. Russell to give me his idea respecting the three possible
fulfillments; but he remained absolutely mum respecting
two of the ways, but freely expressed his opinion
respecting the third way, which he believed would be the
way in which the prophecy would be fulfilled. <q>The beast
that thou sawest was, and is not and shall ascend out of
the bottomless pit and go into perdition,</q> we understand to
be the Holy Roman Empire&mdash;Church and State, united in
power from 799 to 1799. The term <q>Thou sawest</q> refers
to the thousand-year reign of the Pope, and the term <q>And
is not</q> refers to the present non-existence of the Empire
in power, and the term <q>And shall ascend from the bottomless
pit and again go into perdition</q> refers to the re-establishment
of the Holy Roman Empire in power and its
subsequent destruction. The statement <q>When he cometh,
he must continue a short space,</q> was understood by Bro.
Russell to mean that the beast would rule only for a very
short time. In answer to a direct question on this point
<pb n='264'/><anchor id='Pg264'/>
Bro. Russell stated that he did not believe this short space
could be interpreted in days, months, or years, but that
it simply meant a short time. In the 12th verse, we read
that <q>The ten horns which thou sawest are ten kings, which
have received no kingdom as yet, but receive power as
kings one hour with the beast.</q> This seems to set forth
the Papal view respecting the various kings of Europe
which at the present time have not received the official
anointing by the Pope, and consequently have not as yet
received their kingdom. If this is correct, it would then
also mean that if the Pope should anoint these kings and
declare them to be ruling by Divine right, they thereby
would officially receive power as kings, and would rule
with the Pope and together with the Pope would constitute
the beast again in power.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Bro. Russell was anxiously awaiting the settlement of
the present world war for the reason that it seemed very
probable that the Pope would be the leading figure in
bringing about its settlement, and possibly the very basis
of the settlement will be the recognition of the Pope as the
Holy See. If the Pope receives such recognition, he could
in return immediately grant an official anointing of the
rulers of the various governments included in the settlement,
and they then as stated in Verse 13, will be <q>Of one
mind and shall give their power and strength unto the
beast.</q> If this is to be the fulfillment of this picture, then
it will only be a question of time until these same governments
will turn upon the Roman Church and <q>Shall make
her desolate and naked, and shall eat her flesh and burn
her with fire.</q> (Rev. 17:16.) The foregoing briefly outlines
what Bro. Russell seemed to think would be the outcome
of the present war. He had certain articles in prospect
which, if backed up by fulfilled prophecies, were to be the
absolute and irrevocable proof to the world of all of the
leading pictures given in the entire book of Revelation.
Personally, I think everything seems to be shaping itself
towards the fulfillment of the Chapter on the line above
specified. If you are making any use of this letter, kindly
specify or emphasize the fact that Bro. Russell considered
the matter largely as a speculation, and that he positively
stated that he would not go on record in the matter for the
reason that when he treated the matter he would do so in
the light of fulfilled prophecy <hi rend='italic'>as the last word and as the
unsealing of the entire book</hi>, and that he would not attempt
to do this until such a time as the interpretation
could not be refuted.</q> That time has evidently now come.
</p>

<p>
17:8. <hi rend='sans'>The beast that thou sawest.</hi>&mdash;The Antichrist.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Was.</hi>&mdash;Exercised actual dominion until 1799 A. D.
</p>

<pb n='265'/><anchor id='Pg265'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And is not.</hi>&mdash;Has not had even a vestige of temporal
power since 1870. Since then it has been in oblivion, the
<q>bottomless pit.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And shall ascend out of the [bottomless pit], ABYSS.</hi>&mdash;<q rend='pre'>Private
letters from the Vatican, received by Dr. A.
Palmieri of the Library of Congress, a recognized writer
on ecclesiastical subjects, announce that Pope Benedict XV
is about to appoint a commission of four cardinals to renew
a movement begun by Pope Leo XIII, and abandoned by
Pope Pius X, looking to a reunion of Christianity and the
cultivation of friendly relations with the Anglican Church.
A public announcement on the subject from Rome is expected
soon. Dr. Palmieri said that the new movement, as
outlined in his advices, will be directed particularly toward
an establishment of the reunion of the Russian church and
the Papacy and to a thorough re-examination into the
validity of Anglican or Episcopal ordinations, which was
settled in the negative in a papal bull <q>Apostolica Sedis,</q>
by Pope Leo X. The interest of the Pope in the problem
of Christian unity is said to have been intensified by the
recent progress of the world congress, initiated by the
American Episcopal Church.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q><q>The new Pope,</q> said Dr. Palmieri, summarizing the
information received from Rome, <q>has taken a considerable
part in the efforts of neutral nations to establish peace
among nations. The Vatican's efforts have been suggested
not only by a humanitarian spirit, but by a longing for
Christian unity and to end the conflict which long since
has divided Christian churches. Efforts of Leo XIII for
carrying out the reunion of Christianity were abruptly
stopped by Piux X, who aimed at an inner reform of the
Catholic clergy and turned all his energies to the crushing
of modernism [Higher Criticism and Evolution]. Benedict
XV thinks it is time to renew the policy of Leo XIII, also
that a re-establishment of a political peace would be the
first step toward renewed attempts to stop the splitting of
Christianity into a greater number of sects. It seems to
the Vatican that the Orthodox Slavs will be very soon
called to take a more active part in the life of western
nations, either Protestant or Catholic, and that it is necessary
to come to an understanding with them to avoid evils
produced by religious intolerance. The newly planned
commission of cardinals will pay attention to yearnings for
unity, which from time to time manifest themselves in the
Orthodox church, and to cultivate friendly relations with
the Anglican church. One of the most important tasks of
the new commission will be a thorough re-examination of
the arguments pro and con on the validity of Anglican
<pb n='266'/><anchor id='Pg266'/>
ordinations. The bull Apostolica Sedis by Leo X has
settled in the negative the problem of that validity, but
generally theological schools assume a more favorable attitude
toward acknowledgment the validity of Anglican
orders, and the new commission of cardinals will carefully
ponder the reasons set forth by Russian and Anglican divines
against the decision of Pope Leo X. The friendship
of the Anglican church is appreciated by Rome, for she
may be as a link of union between Roman Catholicism and
Russian Orthodoxy.</q></q> (Z. '17-52.) We assume that the foregoing
plan of the pope will succeed. <q>This is the supreme
chance for Christianity <q>to assert her authority and guide
the world out of the darkness enshrouding it,</q> observes
<hi rend='italic'>The Northwestern Christian Advocate</hi> (Methodist, Chicago),
and it wonders whether the organized Christianity that
<q>failed&mdash;ingloriously failed</q>&mdash;in 1914 will again <q>miss her
golden opportunity.</q></q> (Literary Digest.) <q>An old writer
has observed that the Beast reappears from the Abyss
(see on ch. 11, 7) without his diadems, as though, in this
last stage, he would symbolize rather the violence of popular
rage than the prescriptive sanctity of monarchical supremacy.</q>&mdash;Cook.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And go into perdition.</hi>&mdash;Be utterly destroyed at the hands
of the masses it has so persistently and outrageously deceived.&mdash;Rev.
17:11.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And they that dwell on the earth.</hi>&mdash;All independent Christians,
not entangled in the systems of either the beast or
the image. See Rev. 13:13, 14.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Shall wonder.</hi>&mdash;Be astounded, perplexed and dismayed,
<q>At the reappearance of the beast.</q>&mdash;Cook.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Whose names.</hi>&mdash;As a class, not as individuals.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Were not written in the Book of Life.</hi>&mdash;But not necessarily
in so-called Church books, kept here on earth, for collection
purposes.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>From the foundation of the world.</hi>&mdash;<q>The book or scroll
covenanting life to an elect number was prepared from
the foundation of the world. The names in it have been
written as the individuals have made consecration of
themselves, coming under the terms of the Divine call. In
this view of the matter the book or scroll would represent
the original Divine purpose&mdash;God's intention to have a
Church, of which our Lord Jesus would be the Head.&mdash;(Rev.
3:5.)</q>&mdash;Z. '99-265.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>When they behold the beast that was, and is not, and
[yet is] SHALL AGAIN BE PRESENT.</hi>&mdash;The Papal Empire
restored.
</p>

<p>
17:9. <hi rend='sans'>And here is the mind which hath wisdom.</hi>&mdash;A
problem requiring the aid of the Lord.&mdash;Rev. 13:18.
</p>

<pb n='267'/><anchor id='Pg267'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The seven heads are seven mountains.</hi>&mdash;The kingdoms
enumerated in Rev. 12:3.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>On which the woman sitteth.</hi>&mdash;Over which she once
reigned in plentitude of power. Much of Revelation is
written in such a way that both a literal and a symbolical
explanation can be made, designed by the Lord to make
the understanding of the book impossible to any except the
fully consecrated. The following shows the physical explanation
of this text which would most appeal to the
unconsecrated. But it shows that the Mother of Harlots
has her headquarters at Rome. And when we know who
the mother is, it is impossible not to recognize the daughters.
Rome is called in history the <q>seven-hilled city.</q>
<q>The original settlement of Romulus is said to have been
limited to the Palatine mount. With this were united
before the end of his reign the Capitoline and the Quirinal;
Tullus Hostilius added the Caelian, Ancus Martius the
Aventine; and finally Servius Tullius included the Esquiline
and Viminal, and enclosed the whole seven hills with
a stone wall. The growth of the state closely followed
that of the city.</q> (Brit.) It would not be possible to limit
this explanation to seven forms of government which have
exercised sway over the city of Rome. There have been
many such governments. There were seven of them during
the nineteenth century alone&mdash;the Roman Republic
of 1798, the Kingdom of 1805, the Annexation of 1810, the
restoration of the temporal power in 1814, the Revolution
of 1848, the restoration of the temporal power in 1849, and
the Italian occupation in 1870.
</p>

<p>
17:10. <hi rend='sans'>And there are seven kings.</hi>&mdash;Seven forms of government
of the HOLY ROMAN EMPIRE, the devil's own
particular pattern of government.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Five are fallen.</hi>&mdash;(1) The Regal period, from 753 B. C.
to 510 B. C. The <q>Kings</q> of this period were <q>not simply
either the hereditary and patriarchal chief of a clan, the
priestly head of a community bound together by a common
<foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>sacra</foreign>, or the elected magistrate of a state, but a mixture
of all three.</q>&mdash;Brit.
</p>

<p>
(2) The Republic, from 509 to 451 B. C. and from 448 to
60 B. C. <q>It is characteristic of Rome that the change
from monarchy to republic should have been made with
the least possible disturbance of existing forms. The title
of king was retained, though only as that of a priestly
officer (<foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>rex sacrorum</foreign>) to whom some of the religious functions
of the former kings were transferred. The two annually
elected consuls or prætores were regarded as joint
heirs of the full kingly authority, and as holding the imperium
and the correlative right of taking the auspices,
<pb n='268'/><anchor id='Pg268'/>
by direct transmission from the founder of the city.</q> (Brit.)
(3) The Decemvirate, a rule of ten men, from 451 to 449
B. C. (4) The Triumvirate, a rule of three men, from 59
to 49 B. C. and from 43 to 28 B. C. (5) The Dictatorship
of Cæsar, 48 to 44 B. C. All of these forms of the old
Holy Roman Empire have completely passed away.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[And] one is.</hi>&mdash;The Dragon, still represented in the
powers of Europe. (See comments on Rev. 12:3, 4,
7, 9, 13, 16, 17; 13:2, 4, 11; 16:13.) The rulership of
Papacy during the Dark Ages, both directly in its temporal
power, and through the governments which it controlled or
influenced, and still influences, was&mdash;as has been shown&mdash;merely
another aspect of the government of Pagan Rome,
generally styled the Empire, but in Revelation called the
Dragon, and the Devil, and Satan.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the other.</hi>&mdash;The final form, of Arbitrator (whatever
be the official title).
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Is not yet come.</hi>&mdash;But is due to make its appearance with
the close of the war, probably early in the year 1938.
(See comments on Rev. 16:17-21; Ex. 10:23.) Pastor Russell
foretold the <emph>darkness</emph> would commence in <hi rend='italic'>1914</hi>, and
it did!! Egypt's plague of darkness lasted three days (years).
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And when he cometh, he must continue a short space.</hi>&mdash;Probably
from the fall of 1917 to the spring or summer
of 1918. <q>The language is indefinite, the words <q>must continue</q>
alone being emphatic. It is a duration such that by
means of it the Church should be exercised in patience.</q>&mdash;Cook.
</p>

<p>
17:11. <hi rend='sans'>And the beast that was.</hi>&mdash;That once exercised
temporal dominion and, through influence of the European
governments, once actually ruled the world.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And is not.</hi>&mdash;Does not now have any temporal dominion.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[Even] he is the eighth.</hi>&mdash;The eighth horn which took
the place of the three plucked up (Rev. 12:3); also the
final form of the <hi rend='italic'>HOLY ROMAN EMPIRE</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And is of the seven.</hi>&mdash;<q>Cometh of the seven,</q> Greek.&mdash;Grew
up by the plucking of the three. The Papacy is
either the seventh or the eighth form, depending upon how
the matter is viewed. If it be viewed as having reigned
separately from the Dragon during the Dark Ages (as it
did, when it exercised temporal power), in its new guise
it will be the eighth form, its separate rulership during
the Dark Ages being counted as the seventh. But if it be
viewed as having been a co-partner of the Dragon during
the Dark Ages, then its forthcoming manifestation will be
the seventh form. In any event the eighth form is one of
the seven forms; and the regaining of the temporal power
this time will be the cause of the Papacy's destruction.
<pb n='269'/><anchor id='Pg269'/>
See Z. '03-325 for a hint that Benedict XV will never have a
successor. (He is personally the eighth pope reigning
since 1799. Five of these popes had died prior to 1878.
Here is a good secondary fulfilment.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And goeth into perdition.</hi>&mdash;<q>Daniel, representing the
saints, says (Dan. 7:11), <q>I watched it then [after its
dominion was gone and it was powerless longer to crush
the Truth, the power of the holy people], <emph>because</emph> of the
voice of the great words which that horn spoke, and I saw
that [it obtained no power over the holy saints and the
Truth, but it did have another effect] the beast was slain,
the body thereof destroyed and given to the burning
flame</q>&mdash;general anarchy. The destruction of the remnant
of governments in the old Roman Empire, caused by the
misleading influence of Papacy's continued bombastic
utterances, even after its dominion is gone, is thus shown.</q>&mdash;C. 68;
2 Thes. 2:3.
</p>

<p>
17:12. <hi rend='sans'>And the ten horns which thou sawest.</hi>&mdash;Three of
which were originally plucked up to make room for the
growth of the Papacy. See Rev. 12:3; 13:1; 17:3; Dan.
7:7, 8, 20; Rev. 5:6; 1 Sam. 2:10; Deut. 33:17; 1 Ki. 22:11.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Are ten kings.</hi>&mdash;The rulers, whether kings, kaisers, presidents
or others who have dragged into the slaughter house
the descendants of the ten powers originally composing the
Roman Empire.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which have received no kingdom [as yet].</hi>&mdash;No official
sanction as rulers from the counterfeit <q>king of kings and
lord of lords</q>&mdash;the Pope.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>But receive power as kings.</hi>&mdash;<q>The absence of the diadem
indicates that their kingdom is not full, regal power, but
as being transient, is represented as if it were royal
power.</q>&mdash;Cook.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>One hour with the beast.</hi>&mdash;The <q>one hour</q> in this verse
(17:12) may signify one year, or thereabouts. The word
in the Greek is <foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>hora</foreign>. This is the same word which our
Lord used when, in speaking of John the Baptist He said,
<q>He was a burning and a shining light; and you were
willing, for a time (<foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>hora</foreign>&mdash;one year&mdash;the length of John's
ministry before his imprisonment) to rejoice in his light.</q>
(John 5:35; Z. '04-60.) In matters that are still future we
can only use our best judgment as to the significance to be
attached to expressions like this. <q>Let every man be fully
persuaded in his own mind.</q>&mdash;Rom. 14:5.
</p>

<p>
17:13. <hi rend='sans'>These have one mind.</hi>&mdash;All are desperately
anxious to stop the terrible waste of human life, now that
they see what their father, the Devil, has accomplished
through their worship and service of himself and his institutions.
</p>

<pb n='270'/><anchor id='Pg270'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And [shall] give their power and strength unto the beast.</hi>&mdash;Support
it in its apparently laudable but actually selfish
efforts in trying to stop the European war. <q>Deposit in
his hands all the available means which they possess.</q>&mdash;Cook.
</p>

<p>
17:14. <hi rend='sans'>These shall make war with the Lamb.</hi>&mdash;Endeavor
to suppress the message of Present Truth.&mdash;Rev. 16:14;
19:19.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the Lamb shall overcome them.</hi>&mdash;Zion need not
fear; for God is in the midst of her, and will help her.
Her consecration is unto death, and her privilege is to
prove her faithfulness: <q>The disciple is not above his
Master, nor the servant above his Lord. It is enough for
the disciple that he be as his Master, and the servant as
his Lord.</q>&mdash;Matt. 10:24, 25.
</p>

<p>
<q>It will probably be in an effort at self-preservation on
the part of <q>Great Babylon</q>&mdash;<q>Christendom</q>&mdash;when she sees
her power in politics, priestcraft and superstition waning,
that the work of truth-spreading will be stopped as detrimental
to her system. And probably at this juncture the
Elijah class, persisting in declaring the Truth to the last,
will suffer violence, pass into glory and escape from the
severest features of the great Time of Trouble coming&mdash;just
in the crisis of affairs when men begin to feel that
desperate measures must be resorted to, to sustain the
tottering structure of Christendom. Although the exact
time of the deliverance or <q>change</q> of the last members of
the Body of Christ is not stated, the approximate time is
nevertheless clearly manifest, as shortly after the <q>door</q>
is shut (Matt. 25:10).</q>&mdash;C. 231.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For He is Lord of lords, and King of kings.</hi>&mdash;Has the entire
situation under perfect control&mdash;is the <emph>real</emph> Pope.&mdash;1
Tim. 6:15; Rev. 19:16.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And they that are with Him are called.</hi>&mdash;When they hear,
understand and heed the message of complete consecration
even unto death (Rev. 19:9). This clause, in the Greek,
indicates that these also, as well as the Lamb, shall overcome
them.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And chosen.</hi>&mdash;Elected as soon as they comply with the
conditions, provided there are any vacancies.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And faithful.</hi>&mdash;<q>The door of opportunity to engage, with
Christ our Lord, in the work of the Gospel Age, will be
closed when <q>the night cometh wherein no man can work.</q>
And all who have not previously, by faithful service, developed
the necessary character and proved their sympathy,
devotion, love and zeal for the Lord and His Truth
(Matt. 10:37; Mark 8:38), will then be too late to do so.
The closing in of this night will evidently put a stop
<pb n='271'/><anchor id='Pg271'/>
to any farther labor to disseminate the Truth, which, misunderstood
by the public generally, will probably be accused
of being the cause of much of the anarchy and confusion
then prevailing, instead of being seen in its true
light as a foreshadowing of the Divine mind and revelation
concerning coming troubles on the world and their true
causes.</q>&mdash;C. 210; Rev. 2:10.
</p>

<p>
17:15. <hi rend='sans'>And he saith unto me, [The] THESE waters
which thou sawest where the whore sitteth.</hi>&mdash;See Rev.
17:1, 9.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Are BOTH peoples, and multitudes, and nations, and
tongues.</hi>&mdash;And not, therefore, literal water or literal hills,
or forms of government which have ruled the city of
Rome.&mdash;Isa. 8:7.
</p>

<p>
17:16. <hi rend='sans'>And the ten horns which thou sawest.</hi>&mdash;The rulers
of Europe and America, and their subjects, descendants of
the ten powers which originally composed the old Roman
Empire.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[Upon] AND the beast.</hi>&mdash;The re-established temporal dominion
of the pope in Rome and elsewhere. <q>Of her boastings
and threats the following from a Catholic journal of
recent date is a fair sample: <q>The Papacy will regain its
temporal sovereignty, because it is useful and convenient
to the Church. It gives the head executive of the church
a fuller liberty and a fuller sway. The Pope can be no
king's subject long. It is not in keeping with the divine
office to be so. It cramps him and narrows his influence
for good. Europe has acknowledged this influence, and
will be forced to bow to it in greater times of need than
this. Social upheavals, and the red hand of anarchy, will
yet crown Leo or his successor with the reality of power
which the third circle symbolizes, and which was once
recognized universally.</q> Yes, as the day of trouble draws
on, ecclesiasticism will endeavor to use its power and
influence more and more to secure its own political welfare,
by its control of the turbulent elements of society;
but in the crisis of the near future the lawless element will
spurn all conservative influence and break over all restraints,
the red hand of Anarchy will do its dreadful work,
and Babylon, political and ecclesiastical, shall fall.</q>&mdash;D. 38.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>These shall hate the whore, and shall make her desolate
and naked.</hi>&mdash;People and governments will have a common
hatred for their mutual enemy when the motives which
actuate her are clearly revealed.&mdash;Ezek. 16:35-44; 23:22,
29; Zech. 1:19.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And shall eat her flesh and burn her with fire.</hi>&mdash;Unite
to complete her utter destruction.&mdash;Rev. 18:8, 18; Dan.
7:11; C. 68; Gen. 38:24; Ezek. 16:41; Lev. 20:14; 21:9.
</p>

<pb n='272'/><anchor id='Pg272'/>

<p>
17:17. <hi rend='sans'>For God hath put in their hearts to fulfill His
will.</hi>&mdash;As expressed in His Word.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And to agree.</hi>&mdash;The European war would stop tomorrow
if it were not for the officers holding the men to the task
of butchery.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And to give their kingdom unto the beast.</hi>&mdash;Put their liberties
into the hands of the Papacy, as Arbitrator.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Until the words of God shall be fulfilled.</hi>&mdash;And the travail
of nominal Zion shall disclose her true character.
</p>

<p>
17:18. <hi rend='sans'>And the woman which thou sawest.</hi>&mdash;The Apostate
Church, the antitypical Jezebel.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Is that great city.</hi>&mdash;The <q><hi rend='italic'>HOLY ROMAN EMPIRE</hi>.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which reigneth over the [kings] KINGDOMS of the
earth.</hi>&mdash;<q>Expositors of every school generally agree that
Rome Pagan, or Rome Papal, or Rome under both aspects,
is intended here. In order to repel the application to the
Papacy, many Roman expositors also apply what is said
of the destruction of Rome, to the future&mdash;to Rome again
become Pagan: This is the hypothesis, observes Bishop
Wordsworth, of Suarez, Viegas, Ribera, Lessius, Menochius,
C. à Lapide, and others, particularly Dr. Manning in
our own day. Thus Stern writes:&mdash;Babylon is really the
City of Rome, not only, however, according to the old-heathenish,
but also according to the new-heathenish signification
of the World's history.</q>&mdash;Cook.
</p>

<p>
Could there ever come a time when men, the world over,
could be more heathenish at heart than now; and does not,
therefore, even Papal comment show that this Scripture
is ready to be fulfilled?
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>Whene'er the storms come down on thee,</q></l>
<l>And days of peace all seem to flee;</l>
<l>This thought thy peace again shall bring,</l>
<l>Why should I fear?&mdash;the Lord is King.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>E'en when the tempest rages high,</l>
<l>And darkest clouds are drawing nigh,</l>
<l>With hands of faith to this, O! cling,&mdash;</l>
<l>Why should I fear?&mdash;the Lord is King;</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Amid the stormy waves of life,</l>
<l>Above the tumult and the strife,</l>
<l>The chimes of hope still sweetly ring,&mdash;</l>
<l><q rend='post'>Be not afraid&mdash;the Lord is King.</q></l>
</lg>

</quote>

</div>

<pb n='273'/><anchor id='Pg273'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Revelation 18&mdash;The Fall Of Ecclesiasticism</head>

<p>
18:1. <hi rend='sans'>[And] after these things.</hi>&mdash;As another view of the
Harvest epoch.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>I saw another angel.</hi>&mdash;Messenger, the Messenger of the
Covenant, the Lord Jesus.&mdash;Mal. 3:1; Rev. 10:1; 14:1.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Come down from Heaven.</hi>&mdash;In 1874. See Rev. 3:14.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Having great power.</hi>&mdash;<q>All power in Heaven and in
earth.</q>&mdash;Matt. 28:18.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the earth was lightened.</hi>&mdash;See Mal. 4:2; Rev. 7:2.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>With His glory.</hi>&mdash;Some of the glories of the New Day,
all discovered since 1874, are adding machines, aeroplanes,
aluminum, antiseptic surgery, artificial dyes, automatic
couplers, automobiles, barbed wire, bicycles, carborundum,
cash registers, celluloid, correspondence schools, cream
separators, Darkest Africa, disk ploughs, Divine Plan of
the Ages, dynamite, electric railways, electric welding,
escalators, fireless cookers, gas engines, harvesting machines,
illuminating gas, induction motors, linotypes, match
machines, monotypes, motion pictures, North Pole, Panama
Canal, Pasteurization, railway signals, Roentgen rays, shoe
sewing machines, smokeless powder, South Pole, submarines,
radium, sky scrapers, subways, talking machines,
telephones, typewriters, vacuum cleaners and wireless
telegraphy.&mdash;Ezek. 43:2; John 1:9; Matt. 25:31; Titus 2:13.
</p>

<p>
18:2. <hi rend='sans'>And he cried [mightily] with a [strong] MIGHTY
voice.</hi>&mdash;How apt are these Scriptures that refer to Pastor
Russell as a <q>voice</q>! (Rev. 7:2; 10:3; 16:1.) So modestly
are his works written that the author is nowhere manifest,
but attention is always and everywhere drawn to the
<hi rend='italic'>Lord</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Saying, [Babylon the great is] fallen, is BABYLON THE
GREAT [fallen].</hi>&mdash;<q>The expression, <q>Babylon is fallen,</q>
indicates that at some time a sudden and utter rejection is
to come upon Babylon, when all favor will forever cease,
and when judgments will follow&mdash;just such a rejection as
we have shown was due in 1878.</q>&mdash;C. 155; Isa. 13:19-22;
21:9; Jer. 51:8-13; Rev. 14:8; 16:19.
</p>

<p>
<q>In spite of all our wealth, the blight of poverty, with its
accompanying sickness, suffering, crime, insanity and vice,
continues. The social disease manifested in <q>atrophy and
hypertrophy,</q> in <q>extremities bleeding at the bottom, bloating
<pb n='274'/><anchor id='Pg274'/>
at the top, decay in both,</q> is a portent of the modern
world. The net result of our wonderful civilization is that
men have less time now than they have ever had since the
world began.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Current Literature</hi>; Z. '11-420.
</p>

<p>
<q>Alienists the country over are sounding a solemn note
of warning to the American people over the alarming
rush in which we live. According to Dr. Harvey W. Wiley,
federal pure food and drugs expert, nearly every man and
woman at some time in their lives border on insanity.
That view is also indorsed by the famous Dr. William A.
White, head of the United States government hospital for
the insane, who backs up the stand taken recently by Dr.
Owen Copp, new head of the Pennsylvania Hospital for
the Insane. Because of the terrible ravages of drink and
drugs, particularly in the United States, thousands of
people are rendered so extremely nervous that they are
always on the verge of going crazy. The rush and worry
of modern life he gives as the causes.</q>&mdash;Z. '11-228.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And is become the habitation of devils.</hi>&mdash;<q>The <hi rend='italic'>New
York World</hi> publishes an interview with Bishop Fallows,
of the Reformed Episcopal Church, as follows: <q>Telepathy
is an established fact. In recent years great strides have
been made in the explanation of psychic phenomena and
in the years to come the science of communication with
the dead will be made a part of the curriculum of great
educational institutions. I have called the new science
<q>Immortalism</q> because it depends for its existence upon
the immortality of the soul, in which we all believe, and
the preservation of identity beyond the grave.</q> Bishop
Fallows will be recognized by many as one of the ministers
who have recently been taking a great interest in
Faith Healing clinics. We have already pointed out that
to our understanding these cures are effected by hypnotic
influences and that hypnotism is but another form of
Spiritism. We believe that through this channel the fallen
angels (<q>wicked spirits,</q> Eph. 6:12) are seeking to break
down the human will; and that the results, shortly, will
be direful in the extreme, leading to spirit control and
every evil work.</q>&mdash;Z. '09-355; Ecc. 9:5; 1 Pet. 3:19; Jude 6;
Jer. 51:37-41; Rev. 16:14; Isa. 13:19-22; 34:14.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the hold of every foul spirit.</hi>&mdash;Rev. Wm. Sunday
has exceptional opportunity for learning, and in his public
discourses repeatedly <q>scores the ministers because they
have no faith. He condemns their neglect of Bible study.
He says the theological seminaries are turning out infidels.
He refers to the large amount of saloon property
that belongs to church members. He enumerates all kinds
of worldly doings which go on in these denominations. He
<pb n='275'/><anchor id='Pg275'/>
would have us believe that the moral standard of thousands
high in the churches is so low as to almost stagger
reason. Now if what Mr. Sunday says about the denominations
is true they are not fit places for good, respectable
people, to say nothing of true Christians. In fact, if they
are only half as bad as he says, then every faithful child
of God ought to get out of them as quickly as he can. If
they are but one-quarter as bad as Mr. Sunday tells, then
the only safety on the part of one who wishes to retain
his faith is to get out of such spiritual pest-holes.</q>&mdash;Z. '15-207.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And a cage of every unclean and hateful bird.</hi>&mdash;<q>How
true it is, that the most execrable of society seek and
wear the garb of Christian profession and ceremonialism,
in some of the various quarters (sects) of Babylon. Of
all the defaulters, and deceivers of men and of women,
how many are professedly members of Christ's Church!
and how many even use their profession as a cloak under
which to forward evil schemes! It is well known that a
majority of even the most brutal criminals executed die
in the Roman Catholic communion. Babylon has contained
both the best and the worst, both the cream and
the dregs, of the population of the civilized world.</q> (C. 162.)
A parliamentary report of the status of society in England
and Wales in 1873 showed that there were then no
Jewish criminals, 1 of every 20,000 infidels was a criminal,
1 of every 666 Dissenters was a criminal, 1 of every 72
Church of England, and 1 of every 40 Roman Catholics.
(C. 163.) <q>The great system in which the <q>fowl of heaven</q>
delight to roost, and which they have grievously befouled
(Luke 13:18, 19), and which has in fact become <q>a cage of
every unclean and hateful bird,</q> is to be hewn down, and
shall deceive the world no longer.</q>&mdash;C. 187; Isa. 34:11; Jer.
50:39; Zeph. 2:14.
</p>

<p>
18:3. <hi rend='sans'>For all nations have drunk of the wine of the
wrath of her fornication.</hi>&mdash;<q>The stimulating power is not
the spirit of a sound mind, but the delusion of a false
doctrine; as the Prophet declares, they are <q>drunken,</q> but
not with wine. (Isa. 29:9-13.) The people in general have
lost their taste and appreciation for the water of life, the
<hi rend='italic'>Truth</hi>; and false teachers warn them against it as poison.
The wine of false doctrines now being manufactured at
all the Theological Seminaries is the wine of evolution
and higher criticism, which does not satisfy the thirst,
but increases the confusion of mind. Even Babylon's
notables are dissatisfied, famished.&mdash;See Amos 8:11.</q>&mdash;Z. '01-349.
</p>

<pb n='276'/><anchor id='Pg276'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the kings of the earth.</hi>&mdash;The governments of Austria,
Denmark, France, Germany, England, Russia, Spain,
Portugal, etc.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Have committed fornication with her.</hi>&mdash;Joined themselves
to the Roman Catholic, Lutheran, Anglican and
Greek Catholic Churches.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the merchants of the earth.</hi>&mdash;Popes, Cardinals, Archbishops,
Bishops, Presiding Elders, Reverends, etc.&mdash;Rev.
18:11, 15; Isa. 47:15; 23:8; Ezek. 27:36.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Are waxed rich through the abundance of her delicacies.</hi>&mdash;Supplied
partly in cash and partly in left-overs from
church fairs, suppers, etc.
</p>

<p>
18:4. <hi rend='sans'>And I heard another voice from heaven.</hi>&mdash;The
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society</hi>, the corporate body
which Pastor Russell personally organized to conduct the
Harvest work (Rev. 8:3; 14:18). This voice has been
exerted continuously since 1884. <q>Our thought is that it is
the Lord who calls His people out of Babylon; the call to
to be recognized especially as a Voice from Heaven.
Apparently, the Voice is Present Truth.</q>&mdash;Z. '14-180.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Saying, Come out of her.</hi>&mdash;<q>This call applies not only to
those in Babylon the Great, but to those in other denominations&mdash;mother
and daughters. Be not of those who
cannot see the errors of Babylon and who, consequently,
are not of the called ones. The object of the call to come
out is not for people merely to withdraw from a nominal
church. No one is called out of Babylon until he sees
her true condition. This call to associate with Christ, with
Messiah, is given by the Lord through the Prophet when
He says, <q>Gather My saints together unto Me; those that
have made a Covenant with Me by sacrifice.</q> (Psa. 50:5.)
They were to be gathered, not to the Roman or other
systems, but to the Lord, to become one with Him.</q>
(Z. '12-277.) <q>The Lord's call out of Babylon is not in
audible one&mdash;He merely calls us by the principles of righteousness.
He lifts the curtain before the eyes of understanding
of His consecrated ones and thus lets them see
some of the errors, some of the falsities in which they
and others of Babylon are involved&mdash;dishonoring the holy
name&mdash;blaspheming the holy name by misrepresentation
of the Divine character and Plan. This is and should be
call enough for those who are of the Lord's Spirit, for
those who love the Lord and the honor of His name more
than they love houses or lands or parents or children or
any other creature or thing&mdash;yea, more than they love
their own lives. Such are sure to respond and to come
out of Babylon; others who remain, in spite of seeing the
<pb n='277'/><anchor id='Pg277'/>
light, fail to be overcomers of the highest class&mdash;fail
therefore to be in the elect Bride class, and must be
counted in with the Great Company, which will come
through great tribulation, and will get out of Babylon only
when she has been cast as a great millstone into the
midst of the sea&mdash;in the time of anarchous trouble with
which this Age will close.</q> (Z. '06-343.)
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Baptists think their preachers have no authority. But
the Baptists cannot do anything without the consent of the
preachers. The preachers hold a power that God did not
repose there. God never authorized any men to go and
ordain another man to preach the Gospel. God does the
ordaining; and it is for the church to decide, according to
its best judgment, whom the Lord ordains or calls as a
pastor. The people in the Methodist church have almost
no liberty, except the privilege of giving money. The
bishops control the presiding elders, and under them the
presiding elders control the preachers; and so it is all the
way down to the class leaders. They have their head or
chief amongst them. They have a human head. The
General Conference is the highest authority. So the Presbyterian
church has a head in the way of a General
Assembly which has the deciding of matters.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>On one occasion I was called upon by a minister of the
Reformed church. He wanted to know how I managed
my church. I said to him, <q>Brother &mdash;&mdash;, I have no
church.</q> He said, <q>You know what I mean.</q> I answered,
<q>I want you to know what I mean, too. We claim that
there is only one Church. If you belong to that Church,
you belong to our Church.</q> He looked at me in surprise.
Then he said, <q>You have an organization; how many
members are there?</q> I replied, <q>I cannot tell; we do not
keep any membership rolls.</q> <q>You do not keep any list
of the membership?</q> <q>No. We do not keep any list; their
names are written in Heaven.</q> He asked, <q>How do you
have your election?</q> I said, <q>We announce an election;
and any or all of God's people, who are consecrated and
are accustomed to meet with this company, or congregation,
may have the privilege of expressing their judgment
of who would be the Lord's preference for elders and
deacons of the congregation.</q> <q>Well,</q> he said, <q>that is simplicity
itself.</q> I then added, <q>We pay no salaries; there
is nothing to make people quarrel. We never take up a
collection.</q> <q>How do you get the money?</q> he asked. I
replied, <q>Now, Dr. &mdash;&mdash;, if I tell you what is the simplest
truth you will hardly be able to believe it. When people
get interested in this way, they find no basket placed under
their nose. But they see there are expenses. They
<pb n='278'/><anchor id='Pg278'/>
say to themselves, <q>This hall costs something, and I see
that free lunch is served between meetings, for those living
at some distance. How can I get a little money into
this thing?</q></q> He looked at me as if he thought, <q>What do
you take me for&mdash;a greenhorn?</q> I said, <q>Now, Dr. &mdash;&mdash;,
I am telling you the plain truth. They do ask me this
very question, <q>How can I get a little money into this
cause?</q></q></q> (Pastor Russell <hi rend='italic'>Question Meeting</hi>. Gen. 19:15,
22; Isa. 48:20; 52:11; Jer. 50:8; 51:6, 45; Matt. 24:16.)
</p>

<p>
<q>The present work of gathering the Lord's saints out
of Babylon is represented under various symbolic descriptions,&mdash;it
is the gathering of the wheat from the
tares into the barn (Matt. 13:30): it is the gathering of
the good fish into baskets and the casting of the unsuitable
fish caught in the Gospel net back into the sea
(Matt. 13:47-49); it is the gathering of His jewels (Mal.
3:17); it is the midnight cry to the virgins, which separates
the wise from the foolish (Matt. 25:6); and it is the
gathering of the <q>Elect</q> from all the non-elect of Christendom,
from the four winds&mdash;from every quarter.</q> (Matt.
24:31.) (D. 600.) <q>Lot's wife, after starting to flee as directed,
<q>looked back;</q> coveting the things behind: and so
with some now fleeing from Babylon to the mountain
(Kingdom) of the Lord; they are more in sympathy with
the things behind than with the things before. Only those
will run the race to the finish who set their affections on
the things above, and not on the things beneath.</q> (D. 608.)
</p>

<p>
<q>Those who thus flee to the Lord will neither be consumed
by fear and dread, nor swallowed up by the projects
and false theories&mdash;science falsely so called&mdash;with which
this day abounds. And, withal, they may be in the devouring
fire [trouble], witnesses for God and His Plan,
and teachers of the people&mdash;pointers to the glorious outcome
of Jehovah's Plan, lifting up a standard for the
people.&mdash;Isa. 62:10.</q> (B. 31.) <q>The tables of the various
sects of Christendom were started as tables of the Lord,
and adorned to some extent with food from His storehouse,
the Word. But the great Adversary placed upon
these tables errors, delusions, doctrines of devils, which
have blemished them as a whole; wherefore it is appropriate
now to apply to them the words of the Scriptures,
<q>Come out from amongst them and be ye separate; touch
not the unclean thing.</q></q> (Z. '07-91.) <q>Our friends, like
Abraham's friends, would persuade us of the folly of leaving
Babylon, its comforts and associations: they assure
us that our opportunities for greatness, etc., will be distinctly
lessened by the course of obedience which we take.
Nevertheless we, like Abram, go forth taking all of our
<pb n='279'/><anchor id='Pg279'/>
possessions with us, great or small&mdash;nothing must be left
behind to be a treasure in Babylon and to attract our
hearts thither again. All things must be brought with us
so that not our own lives and talents only, but our influence
upon others, must all be made to count.</q> (Z. '01-231)
<q>As to missionary activities (Matt. 23:15), what advantage
can accrue to the heathen from giving them the
false doctrines of the Adversary? The few who may be
reached will have the more to unlearn when the Times
of Restitution begin.</q>&mdash;F. 641.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>My people.</hi>&mdash;<q>We would not be understood as including
all Christians as <q>Babylonians.</q> Quite to the contrary. As
the Lord recognizes some in Babylon as true to Him and
addresses them now, saying, <q>Come out of her, <emph>My people</emph></q>
(Rev. 18:4), so do we; and we rejoice to believe that there
are today thousands who have not bowed the knee to the
Baal of our day&mdash;Mammon, Pride and Ambition. Those
who will not come out until Babylon falls and they come
through the <q>great tribulation</q> (Rev. 7:9-14) shall not be
accounted worthy to share the Kingdom. Compare Rev.
2:26; 3:21; Matt. 10:37; Mark 8:34, 35; Luke 14:26, 27.</q>
(See Micah 2:10; Jer. 12:7-11; 23:33-40; Jer. 11:14, 15;
Prov. 19:27; Matt. 14:28, 29; Hos. 4:6; Isa. 27:12.) <q>The
begetting of spiritual children of God, through the Word
of His grace, and their being to some extent cherished,
nourished and brought forward by these human sectarian
tare systems, is well illustrated by certain insects, the
young of which are injected into the backs of their
enemies, and there warmed, nourished and developed, up
to the time of their complete birth and deliverance, which
means, usually, the death of the insect which temporarily
carried them about.</q> (F. 656.) Now the point of deliverance
has been reached.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That ye be not partakers of her sins.</hi>&mdash;<q>If you fail to
obey the Lord through fear of earthly loss, it will prove
that these things are more precious to you than His favor,
and He will treat you as He treats the hypocrites; you will
have a share in their experiences.</q> (Z. '14-180.) <q>We do
not know but that they may go to the extreme in our day&mdash;to
kill socially, to kill ecclesiastically, perhaps to kill
physically. Nearly all the persecutions that have come to
God's people have come from professed Christians, fellow-believers.
<q>Your brethren that hated you, that cast you
out for My Name's sake, said, Let the Lord be glorified;
but He shall appear to your joy, and they shall be
ashamed.</q> (Isaiah 66:5.)</q>&mdash;Z. '14-181; Num. 16:26.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And that ye receive not of her plagues.</hi>&mdash;See Rev.
16:1-21.
</p>

<pb n='280'/><anchor id='Pg280'/>

<p>
18:5. <hi rend='sans'>For her sins [have reached] CLEAVED TOGETHER
unto Heaven.</hi>&mdash;Ezekiel has touched on this!&mdash;Jer.
51:9; Gen. 11:3, 4; Luke 10:11.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And God hath remembered her iniquities.</hi>&mdash;By seven
plagues; the seven volumes of <hi rend='italic'>Studies in the Scriptures</hi>.&mdash;Rev.
16:1-21. See also bottom of this page.
</p>

<p>
18:6. <hi rend='sans'>Reward her even as she rewarded [you].</hi>&mdash;A diligent
attempt has been made in this direction. Anything
overlooked will be inserted in the next edition.&mdash;Psa.
137:8; Jer. 50:15, 29; 51:24.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[And] double unto her double according to her works.</hi>&mdash;Make
a double exposition (explaining Revelation and Ezekiel)
that will show her up just as she is.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>In [the] HER cup which she hath filled.</hi>&mdash;The Scriptures
which she has twisted, distorted and misapplied. <q>The
cup which she has used as a means of seduction shall
now be changed into the instrument of her punishment.</q>&mdash;Cook.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Fill to her double.</hi>&mdash;Greek, <q>the double.</q> (Isa. 61:7.)
Give her enough light on Ezekiel and Revelation to show
her the exit.&mdash;Isa. 21:7-10.
</p>

<p>
18:7. <hi rend='sans'>How much she hath glorified herself, and lived
deliciously.</hi>&mdash;And to what lengths has not Papacy gone in
this direction, with the Protestant sects doing their best
to keep the pace!
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>So much torment and sorrow.</hi>&mdash;Mourning for the dead,
Greek.&mdash;Amos. 8:10.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Give her.</hi>&mdash;<q>I have laid a snare for thee, and thou art
also taken, O Babylon, and thou wast not aware; thou art
found, and also caught, because thou hast striven against
the Lord. The Lord hath opened His armoury [Ezekiel
and Revelation] and hath brought forth the weapons of
His indignation: for this is the work of the Lord God of
Hosts in the land of the Chaldeans ... the vengeance
of the Lord our God, the vengeance of His Temple....
Recompense her according to her work; according to all
that she hath done, do unto her.</q>&mdash;Jer. 50:24-29.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For she saith in her heart.</hi>&mdash;Babylon really believes her
prosperity will continue forever. They <q>shall <emph>believe</emph> the
lie.</q>&mdash;2 Thes. 2:11.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>I sit a queen, and am no widow, and shall see no sorrow.</hi>&mdash;See
Isa. 47:8, 9; D. 43; Zeph. 2:15.
</p>

<p>
18:8. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore.</hi>&mdash;<q>Because she will violently struggle
for life and power.</q>&mdash;D. 39.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Shall her plagues.</hi>&mdash;Death, mourning, famine and fire.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Come in one day.</hi>&mdash;The year of 1918. See Rev. 3:14; 11:11.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Death.</hi>&mdash;<q>By the hand of her enemies.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And mourning.</hi>&mdash;For the loss of her people.&mdash;Rev. 18:7.
</p>

<pb n='281'/><anchor id='Pg281'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And famine.</hi>&mdash;Literal and symbolic. (Amos. 8:11). <q>As
we call to mind the long train of evils by which Babylon
has oppressed and worn out the saints of the most High
(the true Zion), and how it is written that God will avenge
His own Elect, and that speedily; that, according to their
deeds, He will repay recompense to His enemies; that He
will render unto Babylon a recompense (Luke 18:7, 8; Isa.
59:18; Jer. 51:6), we begin to realize that some fearful
calamity awaits her. The horrible decrees of Papacy,&mdash;the
reproach and reward of which Protestantism also is
incurring by her present compromising association with
her,&mdash;for the burning, butchering, banishing, imprisoning
and torturing of the saints in every conceivable way, executed
with such fiendish cruelty in the days of her power
by the arm of the State, whose power she demanded and
received, await full measure of just retribution.</q>&mdash;D. 39.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And she shall be utterly burned with fire.</hi>&mdash;Completely
destroyed in the anarchy to follow.&mdash;Rev. 17:16; Gen.
38:24; Ezek. 16:41; Lev. 20:14; 21:9.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For strong is <hi rend='sans'>GOD</hi> the Lord [God] who [judgeth]
JUDGED her.</hi>&mdash;<q>Compare Rev. 17:17, where the event is expressly
declared to have been overruled by God.</q> (Cook.)
<q>And I will punish Bel in Babylon [the God of Babylon,&mdash;the
Pope]; and I will bring forth out of his mouth that
which he hath swallowed up [he shall repudiate in his extremity
the <q>great swelling words</q> and blasphemous titles
which he has long appropriated to himself&mdash;that he is the
<q>infallible vicar,</q> <q>vice-gerent of Christ,</q> <q>another God on
earth,</q> etc.], and the nations shall not flow together any
more unto him. Yea, the wall of Babylon [the civil power
that once defended it, and that in a measure does so still]
shall fall.... Thus saith the Lord of Hosts: the broad
walls of Babylon shall be utterly broken, and her high
gates shall be burned with fire [shall be destroyed]; and
the people shall labor in vain, and the folk in the fire [to
prop and save the walls of Babylon], and they shall be
weary.&mdash;Jer. 51:44, 58.</q>&mdash;D. 40. The people are already getting
weary of supporting murderous governments.
</p>

<p>
18:9. <hi rend='sans'>And the kings of the earth, who have committed
fornication [and lived deliciously] with her.</hi>&mdash;In the illicit
unions of Church and State the advantage, from a worldly
viewpoint, has been on the side of the Church. She has
compelled the State to cleanse her filthy linen while she
proceeded to pollute another lot. Far from living deliciously,
the horns have really hated the harlot for her
impudent, shameless conduct.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Shall [bewail her], WAIL and lament for her.</hi>&mdash;Not because
they loved her, but because she was useful to them
<pb n='282'/><anchor id='Pg282'/>
in keeping the people in ignorance and subjection.&mdash;Jer.
50:46; Ezek. 26:15 to 27:36.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>When they shall see the smoke of her burning.</hi>&mdash;When
they witness her confusion and signs of imminent destruction
as portrayed in the seventh plague&mdash;<q>the handwriting
on the wall.</q>&mdash;Dan. 5:1-9; Rev. 18:18; 19:3.
</p>

<p>
18:10. <hi rend='sans'>Standing afar off for fear of her torment.</hi>&mdash;Realizing
that this is a question of interpretation of the Scriptures
and not wishing to get entangled in it any more
than absolutely necessary.&mdash;Jer. 51:30-33.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Saying, Alas, alas, that great city Babylon, that mighty
city.</hi>&mdash;Alas, that great religious system that was always
eager to affiliate with us and give a religious coloring to
even wholesale murder by enticing its young men to enlist
under our banners!
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For in one hour is thy judgment come.</hi>&mdash;In the one year
1917-1918.&mdash;Rev. 17:12.
</p>

<p>
18:11. <hi rend='sans'>And the merchants of the earth.</hi>&mdash;Salesmen of
religious goods&mdash;Popes, Cardinals, Archbishops, Bishops
and smaller fry.&mdash;Ezek. 27:36; Isa. 23:8; 47:15; Rev.
18:3, 15, 23.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Shall weep and mourn over her.</hi>&mdash;Saying, in substance,
<q>What shall I do? for my lord taketh away from me the
stewardship: I cannot dig; to beg I am ashamed.</q>&mdash;Luke
16:3.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For no man buyeth their merchandise any more.</hi>&mdash;<q>And
it shall come to pass in that day, saith the Lord of
Hosts, that I will cut off the names of the idols [all sectarian
denominations] out of the land, and they shall no
more be remembered: and also I will cause the prophets
[the clergy] and the unclean spirit [their false doctrines]
to pass out of the land. And it shall come to pass that
when any [former clergyman] shall yet prophesy [try to
still further mislead the people into giving him reverence
and coin], then his father and his mother that begat him
shall say unto him, Thou shalt not live; for thou speakest
lies in the name of the Lord: and his father and his mother
that begat him shall thrust him through when he prophesieth
[so enraged will they be when they realize how they
have been deceived respecting fears of hell or assurances
of Heaven for themselves and other descendants of monkeys,
which the preachers have taught them they are].
And it shall come to pass in that day that the prophets
[clergy] shall be ashamed every one of his vision [of the
creeds], when he hath prophesied [preached]; neither
shall they wear a rough garment [distinctive clothing&mdash;collars
fastened on backwards, in harmony with their
conceptions of religious things, and ties and clothing in
<pb n='283'/><anchor id='Pg283'/>
mourning to suit] to deceive: But he shall say I am no
prophet [no preacher of the gospel at all], I am an husbandman
[a farmer]; for man taught me to keep cattle
from my youth. [Ezekiel 34:1-31 shows how poorly they
kept the cattle]. And one shall say unto him, What are
these wounds [marks of rough usage] in thine hands?
Then he shall answer, Those with which I was wounded
in the house of my friends [by my parishioners].</q>&mdash;Zech.
13:2-6.
</p>

<p>
18:12. <hi rend='sans'>The merchandise of gold.</hi>&mdash;Truths respecting the
Divine nature. There was a time when the nominal
church had the custody of these truths, but that privilege
passed in 1878.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And of silver.</hi>&mdash;Truths respecting the Great Company.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And precious stones.</hi>&mdash;Truths respecting the Lord's
jewels.&mdash;Mal. 3:17.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And of pearls.</hi>&mdash;Truths respecting the things purchased
by the Lord's death.&mdash;Matt. 13:45, 46.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And fine linen.</hi>&mdash;Truths respecting the righteousness of
the Lord's saints.&mdash;Rev. 19:8; Rom. 8:4; 2 Pet. 1:9.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And purple.</hi>&mdash;Truths respecting the Church's expectation
of coming royalty.&mdash;Rev. 5:10; 20:4; Luke 12:32; 22:29,
30; James 2:5; Mark 10:23; 1 Cor. 4:8; Rev. 3:21; 2 Tim.
2:12; Rev. 2:26, 27; Psa. 2:8-12; 49:14; Rom. 8:19; 16:20.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And silk.</hi>&mdash;Truths respecting the most beautiful of all
the fabrics of the loom&mdash;grand, beautiful characters made
so by the wisdom and mercy of God out of men and
women that to start with were only poor worms of earth.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And scarlet.</hi>&mdash;Truths respecting the Ransom-sacrifice of
our Lord. (1 Tim. 2:6; Rom. 14:9; Rom. 5:18, 19; John
1:29; 1 John 2:2.) All these truths have passed away
from Babylon, but the errors must go, too.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And all thyine wood.</hi>&mdash;Errors respecting man's inherent
immortality. Thyine wood is a sweet-smelling wood; wood
is a symbol of human traditions. The sweetest of all
human theories is the declaration that when a man dies
he is not dead at all. (1 Cor. 3:12.) Very shortly men
will begin to come back from the dead, <q>the last first</q>
(Matt. 19:30; 20:16); and stories that they have been in
some fabulous hell or in Heaven will be at a considerable
discount.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And all manner vessels of ivory.</hi>&mdash;Stories of death-bed
repentance and dreams, used to decorate unscriptural doctrines.
Ivory was and is used in the harness of horses.
It was also used to decorate beds. (Amos 6:4.) Horses
symbolize teachings, and beds symbolize creed-beds. The
application fits, whichever way the symbol is applied.&mdash;Jer.
23:28.
</p>

<pb n='284'/><anchor id='Pg284'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And all manner vessels of most precious wood.</hi>&mdash;Errors
that appeal to the heart of the natural man.&mdash;1 Cor. 3:12.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And of brass.</hi>&mdash;Copper; errors respecting the nature of
man, created perfect and to be re-created in the same likeness.&mdash;Gen.
1:31; Rev. 21:5.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And Iron, [And marble].</hi>&mdash;Errors respecting the <q>iron
rule</q> and when it is to be exercised.&mdash;Dan. 2:40; Rev. 2:27.
</p>

<p>
18:13. <hi rend='sans'>And cinnamon, and spice, and odours, and ointments.</hi>&mdash;Errors
respecting the nature and work of the
Holy Spirit. These principal spices represent things
which go to make up the anointing which we receive to
become priests and kings with Christ.
</p>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{2cm} p{2cm} p{2cm}'; tblcolumns: 'lw(19) lw(19) lw(19)'">
<row><cell>EXODUS 30:23</cell><cell>EXODUS 31:3</cell><cell>ISAIAH 11:2</cell></row>
<row><cell>Holy Anointing Oil</cell><cell>Bezaleel</cell><cell>Christ</cell></row>
<row><cell>Olive oil, <hi rend='italic'>an hin</hi></cell><cell>Filled with the
Spirit of God.</cell><cell>Spirit of Lord resting upon Him.</cell></row>
<row><cell>Myrrh, 500</cell><cell>Wisdom</cell><cell>Wisdom</cell></row>
<row><cell>Cinnamon, 250</cell><cell>Understanding</cell><cell>Understanding</cell></row>
<row><cell>Calamus, 250</cell><cell>Knowledge</cell><cell>Knowledge</cell></row>
<row><cell>Cassia, 500</cell><cell>Workmanship</cell><cell>Counsel and might</cell></row>
</table>

<p>
<q>In the above parallel we find knowledge parallel with
calamus and understanding with cinnamon, and of each a
like quantity is prescribed. We have the understanding of
all the knowledge received of God.</q>&mdash;Z. '07-349.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And frankincense.</hi>&mdash;Errors respecting the kind of praise
proper to offer. Much of the hymn-book theology is bad.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And wine.</hi>&mdash;Errors respecting our privilege of draining
the Lord's cup of sorrow now, that we may drink the cup
of joy with Him hereafter.&mdash;Matt. 20:22; 26:27.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And oil.</hi>&mdash;Errors with reference to the anointing of the
Royal Priesthood.&mdash;Psa. 133:1-3; 1 Pet. 2:5.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And fine flour.</hi>&mdash;Errors as to why the true wheat are so
repeatedly crushed, broken and sifted&mdash;until <q>nothing of
earth is seen.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And wheat.</hi>&mdash;Errors as to who are the true wheat. A
sister on her first service of Truth literature at a church
door was asked by the pastor, <q>What are you doing around
here?</q> Startled, the Sister replied, <q>I am looking for the
wheat.</q> The pastor replied, with some anger, <q>Go away!
There is no wheat here.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And beasts.</hi>&mdash;Cattle; errors as to the nature of sacrifices
with which the Lord is pleased.&mdash;Psa. 66:15.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And sheep.</hi>&mdash;Errors as to how to care for the true sheep.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And horses.</hi>&mdash;Errors as to the kind of doctrines to employ.&mdash;Rev.
9:17-19.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And chariots.</hi>&mdash;Errors in multiplying organizations not
authorized in the Scriptures and not in harmony therewith.
</p>

<pb n='285'/><anchor id='Pg285'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And slaves.</hi>&mdash;Errors respecting what it means to be a
servant of the Lord.&mdash;Luke 16:13; 2 Tim. 2:24; Matt. 10:24,
25; 23:11.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And souls of men.</hi>&mdash;Errors respecting what is the soul.&mdash;Ezek.
18:4; Isa. 53:12.
</p>

<p>
18:14. <hi rend='sans'>And the fruits that thy soul lusted after.</hi>&mdash;Love
of ease, money and praise of men.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Are departed from thee.</hi>&mdash;Replaced by the conditions
affecting the common people. <q>Every valley [lowly and
depressed one] shall be exalted, and every mountain and
hill [highly exalted one] shall be made low: and the
crooked [doctrines] shall be made straight, and the rough
places [where the iron heel of oppression has made a hard
path for the weary multitudes to follow] shall be made
plain.</q>&mdash;Isa. 40:4.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And all things which were dainty and goodly.</hi>&mdash;Stained
glass windows, soft carpets and upholstery, church suppers,
etc.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[Are departed] PERISHED from thee, and [thou shalt]
THEY SHALL find them no more at all.</hi>&mdash;The future of the
clergy is that in the Millennial Age they will have to work
for a living, like everybody else! Isn't it awful to contemplate?
It means an expense of 65c for an alarm clock in
every preacher's house in Christendom!
</p>

<p>
18:15. <hi rend='sans'>The merchants of these things.</hi>&mdash;The salesmen of
these goods, the clergy.&mdash;Rev. 18:3, 11; Ezek. 27:36; Isa.
23:8; 47:15.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which were made rich by her.</hi>&mdash;Who have hitherto made
a good living in the profession of the ministry.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Shall stand afar off for the fear of her torment, weeping
and wailing.</hi>&mdash;Over their lost jobs.
</p>

<p>
18:16. <hi rend='sans'>[And] saying, Alas, alas, that great city.</hi>&mdash;Babylon,
mother and daughters.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That was clothed in fine linen.</hi>&mdash;Seemed to the worshipers
of the beast and his image very righteous.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And purple.</hi>&mdash;Seemed to be already reigning on the earth.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And scarlet.</hi>&mdash;Seemed to have been faithful to the blood
shed on Calvary.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And decked with gold.</hi>&mdash;Seemed to have been the repository
of Truth Divine.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And precious stones.</hi>&mdash;Seemed to have included in her
membership all the Lord's jewels.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And pearls.</hi>&mdash;Seemed to be the sure heir of all that the
Lord purchased by His death.
</p>

<p>
18:17. <hi rend='sans'>For in one hour so great riches is come to
nought.</hi>&mdash;In one short year, 1917-1918, the vast and complicated
system of sectarianism reaches its zenith of power,
only to be suddenly dashed into oblivion.&mdash;Rev. 18:10.
</p>

<pb n='286'/><anchor id='Pg286'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And every shipmaster.</hi>&mdash;Pilot (sky pilot), Greek.&mdash;Ezek.
27:27.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And [all the company in ships] EVERY ONE WHO
SAILETH BY THE PLACE.</hi>&mdash;All the passengers.&mdash;Ezek.
27:29.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And sailors.</hi>&mdash;Mission workers.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And as many as trade by sea.</hi>&mdash;As many as work the sea,
Greek. Salvation Army, Volunteers of America, and others
who work solely among the masses not under religious
restraint.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Stood afar off.</hi>&mdash;Realized that the old doctrines and the
schemes for raising money would never work again.
</p>

<p>
18:18. <hi rend='sans'>And cried when they saw the smoke of her
burning.</hi>&mdash;Her confusion and destruction by the Lord.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Saying, What city is like unto this great city.</hi>&mdash;With its
millions of adherents, all professedly interested in mission
work.
</p>

<p>
18:19. <hi rend='sans'>And they cast dust on their [heads] HEAD.</hi>&mdash;Did
a certain amount of mud-slinging.&mdash;Ezek. 27:30; Lam. 2:10.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And cried, weeping and wailing.</hi>&mdash;And gnashing their
teeth, too, no doubt.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Saying, Alas, [alas] that great city.</hi>&mdash;That wonderful
religio-political combination.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Wherein were made rich all that had ships in the sea.</hi>&mdash;All
preachers who were strong enough and clever enough
to manage people's churches, independent of the sects.
Many such <q>independent</q> churches have large memberships.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>By reason of her costliness.</hi>&mdash;By reason of the amount of
money that can be raised in and for such institutions.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For in one hour is she made desolate.</hi>&mdash;<q>To them the fall
of Babylon at first is astounding, a perplexity, but will
work no real injury, because the reign of Babylon over
the earth will be superseded by the reign of the New
Jerusalem&mdash;the Kingdom of God's dear Son.</q>&mdash;Pastor Russell;
Rev. 18:8; 3:14; 11:11.
</p>

<p>
18:20. <hi rend='sans'>Rejoice over her, thou Heaven.</hi>&mdash;New powers of
spiritual control, Christ and His Bride, appointed to take
her place.&mdash;Jer. 51:48; Phil. 3:20; Rev. 11:19.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And ye [holy] SAINTS AND Apostles.</hi>&mdash;You who have
suffered at her hands.&mdash;Matt. 23:34, 35; Rev. 13:15; 18:24.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And Prophets.</hi>&mdash;The faithful teachers of the Christian
church, and also the Prophets of old, who foresaw Mystic
Babylon's rise and fall, and knew that it stood between
them and the fulfilment of their hopes. <q>Daniel, who
was thinking specially of Israel, and of the fulfilment of
God's promises to the fathers, perceived that all that he
had heard could not occur in 2300 literal days, especially
when Gabriel said to him, <q>But shut thou up the vision,
<pb n='287'/><anchor id='Pg287'/>
for it will be fulfilled after many days.</q> And though he
knew not how long each symbolic day would be, he was
made sick at heart by the thought of so many evils as
were coming upon God's people&mdash;though he saw not the
change of that name from fleshly to spiritual Israel. We
read, <q>And I, Daniel, languished and was sick for some
days.</q></q>&mdash;C. 105.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For God hath avenged you on her.</hi>&mdash;This vengeance of
God for the wrongs done to His saints in all ages began
in 1878 (Rev. 6:10, 11), and closes with the full end of
the Harvest. When the last member of the Great Company
class is delivered the system will utterly perish.
</p>

<p>
18:21. <hi rend='sans'>And a mighty angel.</hi>&mdash;The common people.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Took up a stone like a great millstone.</hi>&mdash;Temporarily
lifted ecclesiasticism to great heights.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And.</hi>&mdash;Experiencing a sudden conviction of their error in
so doing, and of the truly devilish character of the system.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Cast it into the sea.</hi>&mdash;Overwhelmed it in a flood of anarchy.
When this occurs there will be a <q>great hissing
noise</q> (2 Pet. 3:10, Diaglott), indicating that the millstone
will be warm, wrathy, at the moment of disappearance.
The effect of throwing a hot stone into water is to disintegrate
it completely.&mdash;Jer. 51:61-64; Ex. 15:5; Neh. 9:11.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Saying, Thus with violence shall that great city Babylon
be thrown down, [And shall be found no more at all.]</hi>&mdash;<q>The
masses of the people, no longer ignorantly stupid as
during the Dark Ages, will awaken to the true situation,
and will execute upon Babylon the Great&mdash;already repudiated
by the Lord&mdash;the judgment foretold. She shall be
cast like a great millstone into the sea, never to rise again.
The sea represents the masses of the people, especially
a restless opposition class.</q> (Z. '13-343.) <q>The fact is the
world has outgrown the redhot and peppery dishes that
suited the last generation, and it is quite beyond the power
of a very few solemn gentlemen to produce a reaction.</q>&mdash;D. 110;
Jer. 51:64.
</p>

<p>
18:22. <hi rend='sans'>And there shall be no more found in her the
voice of harpers, and musicians, and of pipers, and trumpeters.</hi>&mdash;Those
able to make melody and harmony out of
the Scriptures.&mdash;Isa. 24:8; Ezek. 26:13.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>IT shall be heard no more at all in thee.</hi>&mdash;Even now
Ecclesiasticism is entirely unable to supply any explanation
of either Ezekiel or Revelation, or to understand the
one that is supplied.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And no craftsman, [of whatsoever craft he be,] shall be
found any more in thee; [And the sound of a millstone
shall be heard no more at all in thee].</hi>&mdash;God is the great
craftsman. <q>We are laborers together with God: ye are
<pb n='288'/><anchor id='Pg288'/>
God's husbandry, ye are God's building. According to the
grace of God which is given unto me, as a wise master-builder,
I have laid the foundation and another buildeth
thereon. But let every man take heed how he buildeth
thereupon.</q>&mdash;1 Cor. 3:9, 10.
</p>

<p>
18:23. <hi rend='sans'>[And the light of a candle shall shine no more
at all in thee;] And the voice of the Bridegroom and of the
Bride.</hi>&mdash;Christ and His true Church.&mdash;Jer. 7:34; 16:9;
25:10; 33:11.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Shall be heard no more at all in thee.</hi>&mdash;Neither Christ
nor His saintly ones have had anything to say in the affairs
of the nominal church since 1878; nor have they
wished to have. <q>The rejection of Babylon (<q>Christendom</q>),
in 1878, was the rejection of the mass of professors&mdash;the
<q>host,</q> as it is termed by Daniel, to distinguish
it from the Sanctuary or Temple class.</q>&mdash;C. 180.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For thy merchants were the great men of the earth.</hi>&mdash;They
said so, themselves. They have attempted to direct
everything from prize fights up. Rev. Rainsford even tried
to run a beer saloon, but was not able to make it a coin-producer
for the church and gave it up.&mdash;Isa. 23:8; 47:15;
Rev. 18:3, 11, 15; Ezek. 27:21, 36.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For by thy sorceries were all nations deceived.</hi>&mdash;<q>Consider,
again, why Babylon is so named. Evidently, because
of her many errors of doctrine, which, mixed with a few
elements of Divine Truth, make great confusion, and because
of the mixed company brought together by the mixed
truths and errors. This sin of holding and teaching error
at the sacrifice of truth is one of which every sect of the
church nominal is guilty, without exception. Where is
the sect in which you can obey the Master's words and
let your light shine? We know of none.</q>&mdash;C. 181; Rev. 17:2;
2 Ki. 9:22.
</p>

<p>
18:24. <hi rend='sans'>And in her was found the blood of Prophets.</hi>&mdash;They
are accounted as having slain the Prophets because
they refuse to heed them, and to that extent caused them
to lay down their lives needlessly!&mdash;Rev. 16:6; 17:6.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And of saints.</hi>&mdash;They are accounted as having slain the
saints because they have given no heed to their warnings,
and to that extent caused them to die in vain.&mdash;Jer. 51:49.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And of all that were slain upon the earth.</hi>&mdash;The great
European war, and other wars, are justly laid at the door
of the system that has perpetuated the doctrines of Divine
right of clergy and kings; and it is for this reason that
God has decreed her sins must be wiped out first with
symbolical blood (Rev. 14:20), and afterwards with literal
blood in the red sea of anarchy.&mdash;Ex. 14:21-28; Isa. 63:1-6.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url="images/img297.png" rend="width: 80%">
    <head>The Traveler Inquires The Way To Heaven</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url="images/img298.png" rend="width: 60%">
    <head>Whom Should We Believe&mdash;God Or The Clergy?</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='289'/><anchor id='Pg289'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Revelation 19&mdash;The Overthrow Of Satan's Empire</head>

<p>
19:1. <hi rend='sans'>[And] after these things.</hi>&mdash;After the saints are
glorified and present ecclesiastical systems are destroyed.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>I heard AS IT WERE a great voice of much people.</hi>&mdash;The
Great Company.&mdash;Rev. 7:10.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>In heaven.</hi>&mdash;The only heavenly-minded ones remaining
on earth.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Saying, Alleluia; Salvation.</hi>&mdash;Deliverance from the Papacy
and other sects has come at last.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[And glory, and honor,] and power [unto the Lord] OF
our God.</hi>&mdash;It has been accomplished not by human power,
but by the Wisdom and Power of God.&mdash;Rev. 7:12.
</p>

<p>
19:2. <hi rend='sans'>For true and righteous are Thy judgments.</hi>&mdash;<q>God
is light, and in Him is no darkness at all.</q>&mdash;1 John
1:5; Rev. 15:3; 16:7.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For He hath judged the great whore.</hi>&mdash;Has executed the
judgments long foretold.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which did corrupt the earth with her fornication.</hi>&mdash;Her
illicit union with worldly governments.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And hath avenged the blood of [His] HER servants at
her hand.</hi>&mdash;The millions who have perished in the Great
War have been the servants of Babylon. The direct cause
of their slaughter is the doctrine of the Divine right of
the clergy. These have maintained the kings of Europe
on their thrones, falsely telling them they are ruling as
part of Christ's Kingdom. This position has led to the
death of all these millions, and their blood will be required
at Babylon's hand.
</p>

<p>
19:3. <hi rend='sans'>And again they said, Alleluia.</hi>&mdash;The more they
think it over, the happier they will become.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And her smoke.</hi>&mdash;The evidences of her destruction; the
remembrance.&mdash;Isa. 34:10; Rev. 14:11; 18:9, 18.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Rose up for ever and ever.</hi>&mdash;Will be recorded in secular
history, even as it is recorded in <q>the Word of God, which
liveth and abideth for ever.</q>&mdash;1 Pet. 1:23.
</p>

<p>
19:4. <hi rend='sans'>And the [four and] twenty FOUR elders.</hi>&mdash;The
prophecies.&mdash;Rev. 4:4, 10.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the four beasts.</hi>&mdash;Infinite Power, Justice, Wisdom
and Love.&mdash;Rev. 4:7.
</p>

<pb n='290'/><anchor id='Pg290'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Fell down and worshipped God that sat on the Throne, saying Amen;
Alleluia.</hi>&mdash;The God, the mighty One, here
referred to is the Lord Jesus.&mdash;Rev. 5:3.
</p>

<p>
19:5. <hi rend='sans'>And [a voice] VOICES.</hi>&mdash;The Little Flock, beyond
the veil.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Came out of the Throne.</hi>&mdash;They will be <emph>in</emph> the
Throne at that time.&mdash;Rev. 3:21.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Saying, Praise our God, all ye His servants.</hi>&mdash;Of the
Great Company class.&mdash;Rev. 7:15; Psa. 134:1-3.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[And] ye that fear Him, [both] small and great.</hi>&mdash;Your
deliverance was wholly due to the Lord. We did what we
could to help you, but it was as nothing. To the Lord
belongs all the glory for your deliverance and ours.&mdash;Rev.
11:18.
</p>

<p>
19:6. <hi rend='sans'>And I heard as it were the voice of a great multitude.</hi>&mdash;<q>In
the Age to come, when God shall <q>pour out His
Spirit upon all flesh,</q> as during the present Age He pours
it upon His <q>servants and handmaids,</q> then indeed all will
understand and appreciate the promises now being grasped
by the <q>little flock</q>; and they will rejoice in the obedience
and exaltation of the Church, saying, <q>Let us be glad and
rejoice, and give honor to God, for the Marriage of the
Lamb is come, and His Wife hath made herself ready.</q>
They will rejoice in the glorification of the Church,
through which blessings will then be flowing to them; and
while they will realize that the <q>exceeding great and
precious promises</q> inherited by the Anointed (Head and
Body) are not for them, but have been fulfilled upon us,
they will be blessed by the lesson illustrated in the
Church; and while they run for the blessings then held
out to them, they will profit by the example of the Church
and glorify God on her behalf. But this knowledge will
not bring covetousness; for under the new order of things
their calling to perfect human nature will fully satisfy
them, and will seem more desirable to them than a change
of nature.</q>&mdash;A. 86.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And as the voice of many waters.</hi>&mdash;All mankind.&mdash;Rev.
17:15.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And as the voice of mighty thunderings.</hi>&mdash;An overwhelming
and complete reaction in favor of the Truth. The
<q>seven thunders</q> will then be thundering as never before.&mdash;Rev.
10:4; 8:5.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Saying, Alleluia: for [the Lord] God OUR LORD THE
Omnipotent reigneth.</hi>&mdash;<q>Shows Himself to be king by subduing
His enemies.</q> (Cook.) Thoroughly convinced of the
greatness of the Lord's power, as all men will be by the
end of the Time of Trouble, they will be glad to entrust
all their interests to His care.
</p>

<pb n='291'/><anchor id='Pg291'/>

<p>
19:7. <hi rend='sans'>Let us be glad and rejoice, and give honor to
Him.</hi>&mdash;<q>Thy people shall be willing in the day of Thy
power.</q>&mdash;Psa. 110:3.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For the Marriage of the Lamb is come.</hi>&mdash;The marriage
of men and women is declared in the Scriptures to be a
type of the marriage of Christ and His Church. (Eph.
5:22-23.) It is a recognized principle that the antitype
is greater than the sum of all the types. The death of
Christ was greater than all the sacrifices throughout the
Jewish Age. Now call to mind that the wedding day is
the happiest of every human being. Think of all the
happiness caused by all the weddings that have ever occurred,
and know that the sum total is as nothing compared
to the joy that will pervade the Universe when the festal
day of eternity takes place, and Christ and His Bride are
made one.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And His Wife.</hi>&mdash;<q>The Bride represents <q>all who have believed
up to the commencement of the Millennium. These
alone are the mystical Body of Christ. But after they are
completed, at the Second Advent the earth will be peopled
by the <q>nations of the saved</q> in flesh and blood,&mdash;a totally
different party from the then glorified Bride.</q></q>&mdash;Cook.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Hath made herself ready.</hi>&mdash;The witnessing to the world
during the present Age is quite secondary and incidental
to the Church's more important work of making herself
ready.&mdash;F. 608; T. 115; Matt. 22:1-14; 25:1; 2 Cor. 11:2; Eph.
5:27; Rev. 21:2, 9; John 3:29; Cant., all; Psa. 45:10-14;
Matt. 9:15; Mark 2:19; Lu. 12:36.
</p>

<p>
19:8. <hi rend='sans'>And to her was granted that she should be arrayed
in fine linen, BRIGHT AND clean and white.</hi>&mdash;<q><q>She
shall be brought unto the King in raiment of needle work</q>
(Psa. 45:14)&mdash;in the simple white robe of her Lord's own
furnishing, the robe of His righteousness, upon which she
will have wrought, with much carefulness, the beautiful
adornments of the Christian graces. And great will be
the rejoicing in Heaven and in earth at her abundant entrance
into the King's palace.&mdash;2 Pet. 1:5-8, 11.</q>&mdash;C. 193.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For the fine linen is the righteousness of saints.</hi>&mdash;Here
and there throughout the Scriptures are keys which unlock
its mysteries. (Rev. 3:18; Psa. 132:9.) This is the
key to several otherwise obscure passages.
</p>

<p>
19:9. <hi rend='sans'>And he.</hi>&mdash;The faithful and wise Servant to whom
the custody of all the things in His Storehouse was especially
promised by the Lord of the Harvest.&mdash;Luke 12:42-44;
Rev. 3:14; 1:1.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Saith unto me, write.</hi>&mdash;To representatives of the John
class, commissioned to write something of encouragement
to the Church after he himself had ceased to write.
</p>

<pb n='292'/><anchor id='Pg292'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Blessed are they which are called unto the [marriage]
supper of the Lamb.</hi>&mdash;The Marriage Supper (Lu. 14:15)
will be like all the other feasts the Church has had, not
of physical food, but of truths Divine. That will be the
time when the Lord, the Head of the family, will explain
to us every part of every verse in all His Holy Word.
We shall have perfect memories then, in which to treasure
every word He utters, and perfect bodies, too, in which
to perform to the full all God's holy will. We have the will
to do it now. We have tried to understand His Word,
and tried to help others to understand it; but the best
we could do was far from perfect. The Lord, in His love
and mercy, has accepted our best endeavors here as evidence
of our worthiness for the perfect opportunities that
await us. <q>Ultimately the full number purposed by the
great Householder will have been called, accepted, and
found worthy through Christ to have a place at that table&mdash;to
share in that great Feast. (Matt. 22:1-10.) At that
feast, we are assured, will be a secondary company, not
worthy to be of the Bride class. These may be figuratively
styled the bridesmaids, the Great Company class;
for after the account of the gathering of the Bride we
have the Lord's message to these subsequently delivered
from Babylon, saying, <q>Blessed are they that are called
to the marriage supper of the Lamb.</q> You can imagine
the honors and joys of that great banquet!</q>&mdash;Z. '14-74.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And he saith unto me, These MY TRUE SAYINGS, are
the [true] sayings of God.</hi>&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>Ascend, beloved, to His joy;</q></l>
<l>Thy festal day has come;</l>
<l>To-night the Lamb doth feast His own,</l>
<l>To-night He with His Bride sits down,</l>
<l>To-night puts on the spousal crown,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'><q rend='post'>In the great Upper Room.</q></l>
</lg>
</quote>

<p>
19:10. <hi rend='sans'>And I fell at his feet to worship him.</hi>&mdash;<q>If there
come to any of us a thought of doing homage to the
Lord's messengers or servants it would be our duty to
fully recognize that God alone, however much He may use
human instrumentalities in conveying His blessings, is to
be honored and reverenced and appreciated as the Author
and Giver of every good and perfect gift.&mdash;James 1:17.</q>&mdash;Z. '07-105;
Rev. 22:8.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And he said unto me, See thou do it not.</hi>&mdash;But Satan
said to the Lord, <q>All these things will I give thee, if
Thou wilt fall down and worship me.</q> (Matt. 4:9.) When
Papacy did this, Satan was true to his promise. By resorting
to worldly forms, customs and entertainments all
the daughters have followed the example of the mother.
</p>

<pb n='293'/><anchor id='Pg293'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>I am thy fellowservant.</hi>&mdash;<q>St. John in his humility forgets
his own share in imparting the revelation; and the
Angel in his humility brings this to light (Acts 10:25, 26).</q>&mdash;Cook;
Acts 14:14, 15; Rev. 22:9; Rom. 1:1; Phil. 1:1;
Tit. 1:1; 2 Pet. 1:1.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And of [thy] THE brethren that have the testimony of
Jesus: worship God.</hi>&mdash;<q>Whose servants we both are; of
Whose prophetic Spirit we alike partake in this our common
ministry; and therefore one of us may not worship
the other.</q>&mdash;Cook.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy.</hi>&mdash;<q>All
Christians, in every age, who can receive and understand
prophecy, have this spirit.</q> (Cook; 1 Cor. 12:13.)
However, <q>The design of prophecy is to bear testimony to
Jesus. This is its great and ultimate end. The word
prophecy here seems to be used in the large sense in which
it is often employed in the New Testament&mdash;meaning to
make known the divine will, and the primary reference here
would seem to be to the preachers and teachers of the
New Testament. The sense is, that their grand business
is to bear testimony to the Saviour. They are all appointed
for this, and therefore should regard themselves as <q>fellow-servants.</q>
Thus understood, this passage has no direct
reference to the prophecies of the Old Testament, and
teaches nothing in regard to their design, though it is in
fact undoubtedly true that their grand and leading object
was to bear testimony to the future Messiah.</q>&mdash;Barnes;
Rev. 12:17.
</p>

<p>
19:11. <hi rend='sans'>And I saw heaven opened.</hi>&mdash;The hidden things of
God as recorded in the Seventh Volume of <hi rend='italic'>Studies In
The Scriptures</hi>.&mdash;Rev. 11:19.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And behold a white horse.</hi>&mdash;Teachings which, however
unpalatable to Churchianity, are nevertheless the truth.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And He that sat upon him was called Faithful.</hi>&mdash;<q>The
faithful and true Witness.</q>&mdash;Rev. 3:14.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And True.</hi>&mdash;<q>He that is holy, He that is true.</q>&mdash;Rev. 3:7.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And in righteousness He doth judge and make war.</hi>&mdash;<q>While
the Lord forbids His people to fight with carnal
weapons, and while He declares Himself to be a God of
peace, a God of order and of love, He also declares Himself
to be a God of justice, and shows that sin shall not
forever triumph in the world, but that it shall be punished.
<q>Vengeance is Mine, I will repay, saith the Lord.</q> (Rom.
12:19; Deut. 32:35.) And when He rises up to judgment
against the nations, taking vengeance upon all the wicked,
He declares Himself <q>a man of war</q> and <q>mighty in battle,</q>
and having a <q>great army</q> at His command.&mdash;Exod. 15:3;
Psa. 24:8; 45:3; Isa. 11:4; Joel 2:11.</q>&mdash;D. 549.
</p>

<pb n='294'/><anchor id='Pg294'/>

<p>
19:12. <hi rend='sans'>His eyes were [as] a flame of fire.</hi>&mdash;The Lord's
Wisdom sees that the time has come for the destruction
of present iniquitous systems.&mdash;Rev. 1:14.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And on His head were many crowns.</hi>&mdash;The right to rule
all the kingdoms of the earth.&mdash;Ezek. 21:27.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And He had a name written, that no man knew, but He
Himself.</hi>&mdash;This new name is to be also the name of the
Church, His Bride. Possibly it has not yet been revealed.&mdash;Rev.
2:17; 3:12.
</p>

<p>
19:13. <hi rend='sans'>And He was clothed with a vesture [dipped in]
SPRINKLED WITH blood.</hi>&mdash;A reference to His faithfulness
even unto death, and a hint to His Body what to
expect shortly.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And His name [is] HATH BEEN called the Word of God.</hi>&mdash;In
this picture He is represented as coming, not as the
Messenger of the Covenant, but in <foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>apokalupsis</foreign>, revealment
as earth's rightful King.&mdash;John 1:1; Rev. 1:2.
</p>

<p>
19:14. <hi rend='sans'>And the armies which were in heaven.</hi>&mdash;All the
armies of Rev. 7:5-8, the Little Flock, whether on this side
of the veil or on the other.&mdash;Rev. 17:14.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Followed Him.</hi>&mdash;<q>The sheep follow Him: for they know
His voice. And a stranger will they not follow.</q>&mdash;John
10:4, 5.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Upon white horses.</hi>&mdash;Teachings clean and pure.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Clothed in fine linen, white and clean.</hi>&mdash;<q>The righteousness
of saints.</q>&mdash;Rev. 19:8.
</p>

<p>
19:15. <hi rend='sans'>And out of His mouth goeth a sharp sword.</hi>&mdash;<q>Our
examination, in a preceding volume, of the great
difference in character between the Kingdom of God and
the beastly kingdoms of earth, prepares us to see also a
difference in modes of warfare. The methods of conquest
and breaking will be widely different from any which have
ever before overthrown nations. He who now takes His
great power to reign is shown in symbol as the One whose
sword went forth out of His mouth, <q>that with it He should
smite the nations; and He shall rule them with a rod of
iron.</q> That sword is the Truth (Eph. 6:17).</q>&mdash;B. 100; Isa.
11:4; 49:2; 2 Thes. 2:8; Rev. 1:16; 2:12, 16; 19:21; Hos.
6:5; Heb. 4:12.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That with it He should smite the nations.</hi>&mdash;<q><q>He shall
smite the earth with the rod of His mouth, and with the
breath of His lips [the force and spirit of His Truth] shall
He slay the wicked.</q> (Isa. 11:4; Psa. 98:1.) To no human
generalship can the honors of the coming victory for truth
and righteousness be ascribed. Wild will be the conflict
of the angry nations, and world-wide will be the battlefield
and the distress of nations; and no human Alexander,
Cæsar or Napoleon will be found to bring order out of the
<pb n='295'/><anchor id='Pg295'/>
dreadful confusion. But in the end it will be known that
the grand victory of justice and truth, and the punishment
of iniquity with its just deserts, was brought about by the
power of the King of kings and Lord of lords.</q>&mdash;D. 19.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And He shall rule them with a rod of iron.</hi>&mdash;<q>In this
<q>Day of Jehovah,</q> the <q>Day of Trouble,</q> our Lord takes His
great power (hitherto dormant) and reigns, and this it is
that will cause the trouble, though the world will not so
recognize it for some time. That the saints shall share
in this work of breaking to pieces present kingdoms, there
can be no doubt. It is written, <q>This honor have all His
saints&mdash;to execute the judgments written, to bind their
kings with chains, and their nobles with fetters of iron</q>&mdash;of
strength. (Psa. 149:8, 9.) <q>He that overcometh, and
keepeth My works unto the end, to him will I give power
over the nations, and he shall rule them with a rod of
iron; as the vessels of a potter shall they [the empires]
be broken to shivers.</q></q>&mdash;Rev. 2:26, 27; Psa. 2:8, 9; B. 100.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And He treadeth the winepress of the fierceness and wrath
of THE ANGER OF Almighty God.</hi>&mdash;The Lord assumes
an interest in and responsibility for the complete series of
<hi rend='italic'>Studies In The Scriptures</hi>, the last one of which
especially represents the winepress feature (Rev. 14:18-20),
but it would be unreasonable to expect that the Lord
would miraculously use imperfect tools to do an absolutely
perfect work and each must use his judgment as to the
value of the interpretations in this book. Additionally, it
should be remarked that the language here is more intense
than in Rev. 14, indicating the extension of the winepress
feature to other than ecclesiastical matters.
</p>

<p>
19:16. <hi rend='sans'>And He hath on His vesture and on His thigh a
name written.</hi>&mdash;<q>The thigh is introduced as the place where
the sword (which is not mentioned here, see ver. 15) is
usually found, in accordance with Psa. 45:3: <q>Gird Thee
with Thy sword upon Thy thigh, O Most Mighty.</q></q>&mdash;Cook.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>King of kings and Lord of lords.</hi>&mdash;Before the controversy
aroused by this book is finished, every person in the
world will be convinced that it marks a distinct step by
the Lord in His seizure of Satan's Empire.&mdash;1 Tim. 6:15;
Rev. 17:14; Dan. 8:25.
</p>

<p>
19:17. <hi rend='sans'>And I saw [an] ANOTHER angel.</hi>&mdash;The Elijah
class after the publication of Volume Seven, <hi rend='italic'>Studies in the
Scriptures</hi>. See Rev. 8:3-5; 14:18.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Standing in the sun.</hi>&mdash;Resplendent in the light of the
Gospel.&mdash;Rev. 12:1; Matt. 13:43.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And he cried with a loud voice.</hi>&mdash;Fearlessly and plainly
declaring the Truth.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Saying to all the fowls.</hi>&mdash;Birds, Greek.&mdash;Matt. 24:28.
</p>

<pb n='296'/><anchor id='Pg296'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That fly in the midst of heaven.</hi>&mdash;First to the <q>eagles,</q>
the far-sighted ones, the Little Flock, and then, by extension,
to all who live, mentally, on any plane above the
grossly material.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Come [and gather yourselves] BE GATHERED together
unto the GREAT supper of [the great] God.</hi>&mdash;We should
look for applications appropriate to the symbolical book we
are studying, even though it develop later, as it will, that
these passages will have a literal and terrible fulfilment
in a deluge of actual bloodshed, of which the European
War is but a preliminary.
</p>

<p>
19:18. <hi rend='sans'>That ye may eat the flesh of kings.</hi>&mdash;Five of these
kings or rulers are enumerated in Rev. 6:4. Doubtless the
reader has eaten them, in the symbolical sense. They are
there to be eaten.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the flesh of captains.</hi>&mdash;Lesser commanders, enumerated
in Rev. 8:7-12. No doubt the reader has eaten
these also.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the flesh of mighty men.</hi>&mdash;Warriors. These warriors
are referred to in Rev. 9:7, 9, although there mentioned
under the name of locusts. If the reader has not
eaten (appropriated, absorbed, digested) the account, the
task should be undertaken at once, or something will be
missed.
</p>

<p>
That the Lord made no mistake in selecting the Locust
as a symbol of the Methodist system of blindly following
leaders is clear from the following extract from the works
of a traveller: <q>While sojourning in Syria I was told that
the whole country round Mt. Lebanon was dismayed one
year by the news that a vast army of marching locusts
was coming from the eastern desert. The governor of the
district ordered a regiment of soldiers to aid the people
to construct a great rampart of heath bushes to be set
on fire as the locusts came up to it, hoping thus to save
the gardens of Beyrout. These locusts always hopped
straight ahead, deviating neither to the right nor left, and
on coming to a house went up its stone walls, over it
and down it, as if it were a level place, and in such inconceivable
numbers that an American resident described
the noise of the great host passing over the roof as like
to that of a tremendous hailstorm. At every green leaf
on the way each took a bite, and then went on for the
next one to take his bite, until in an incredibly short
time not a green thing could be seen. When they reached
the prepared heaps of heath, and these were set on fire,
the locusts marched on without pausing, until in a brief
time they put the bonfires completely out. As the sea
was not far off everybody hoped that they would take to
<pb n='297'/><anchor id='Pg297'/>
surf bathing. And so they did. Just as certain injurious
political crowds among us can always be always depended
upon to march up to the polls and vote the straight ticket,
when the vanguard reached the waves, like all good true
locusts, in they hopped, followed by all the rest, till the
billows seemed to roll only grasshoppers; nor did the
scene end until the last of the rear guard had skipped
over the heaps of his dead comrades to make his last jump
into the blue waters of the Mediterranean.</q>&mdash;Jer. 51:64.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the flesh of horses.</hi>&mdash;Did you not see the horses in
Rev. 9:17, 18, and did you not eat them, fire, jacinth, brimstone
and all?
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And of them that sit on them.</hi>&mdash;Did we not find two
hundred millions of these horsemen, and did you not eat
them?&mdash;See Rev. 9:16.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the flesh of all men, both free and bond, both small
and great.</hi>&mdash;And did we not find all the rest of the men
included in Rev. 9:20, 21, and did we not eat them in the
same manner? We did, indeed. We ate or appropriated
the truth concerning them. It is our eating of these truths
that lead to the events next narrated.
</p>

<p>
19:19. <hi rend='sans'>And I saw the beast.</hi>&mdash;The Papacy restored to
power. Weymouth's New Testament in Modern Speech
translates this verse as follows, and adds a footnote that
the <q>once for all,</q> though not expressed in the Greek, is
implied in the aorist tense of the verb: <q>And I saw the
Wild Beast, and the kings of the earth, and their armies,
all assembled to make war, once for all, against the Rider
upon the horse and against His army.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the kings of the earth.</hi>&mdash;Called to the war by
demons. (Rev. 16:13-16.) <q>The kings of the earth set
themselves [in opposition], and the rulers [not knowing
that they are fighting against the establishment of the
Lord's Kingdom], take counsel together against the Lord
and against His Anointed, [but] He that sitteth in the
heavens shall laugh; the Lord shall have them in derision.</q>&mdash;Psa.
2:2, 4; D. 52.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And their armies.</hi>&mdash;Their following, Civil, Social, Ecclesiastical
and Financial.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Gathered together to make war.</hi>&mdash;<q>The war,</q> Greek.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Against Him that sat on the horse, and against His
army.</hi>&mdash;Although composed of the twelve symbolical tribes
(Rev. 19:14; 7:4-8) they are, after all, but one army, all
<q>One in Christ Jesus.</q> <q>Let it be seen that the best and
the worst of earth's nations are but <q>kingdoms of this
world,</q> whose lease of power from God is now expired, that
they may give place to their ordained successor, the Kingdom
of Messiah, the Fifth Universal Empire of earth (Dan.
<pb n='298'/><anchor id='Pg298'/>
2:44; 7:14, 17, 27)&mdash;and it will do much to establish truth
and to overthrow error. But as it is, the actions of Papacy
in this regard, sanctioned by the Protestant Reformers, go
unquestioned among Christian people. And since they
should uphold the Kingdom of Christ, they feel themselves
called to the aid of the present falling kingdoms of so-called
Christendom&mdash;to the side of the kingdoms of this
world, and the prince of this world, rather than to the side
of the coming true Kingdom of Christ.</q>&mdash;A. 270; Rev. 16:16;
17:13, 14.
</p>

<p>
19:20. <hi rend='sans'>And the beast was taken.</hi>&mdash;The Papacy was
caught. (Jer. 50:43-46.) No doubt the publication of this
book has come at a time unfavorable to the schemes of
Papacy and will interfere greatly with its efforts at re-establishment&mdash;Rev.
17:14.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And with him the false prophet that wrought miracles
before him.</hi>&mdash;The Image of the Beast.&mdash;Rev. 13:11, 13, 14
15; 14:9, 11; 15:2; 16:2, 13; 19:20; 20:10; Matt. 24:24.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>With which he deceived them that had received the
mark of the beast.</hi>&mdash;Catholics.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And them that worshipped his image.</hi>&mdash;Protestants.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>These both.</hi>&mdash;Both of these <emph>systems</emph>, not the people.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Were cast alive.</hi>&mdash;While they are still organized and
operative.&mdash;H. 59.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Into a lake of fire burning with brimstone.</hi>&mdash;Into the
complete and everlasting destruction, of the anarchy (symbolized
by fire) of the Time of Trouble. This utter destruction
of these systems is the beginning of the annihilation
of everything out of harmony with God's righteous
arrangements. It was typified by the valley of Gehenna,
just outside of Jerusalem. By the aid of brimstone the
bodies of specially detestable criminals were there burned
with the other refuse of Jerusalem. Standing upon the
edge of this valley at night it had the appearance of a
lake burning with fire and brimstone. Burning brimstone
is the most deadly agent known, and symbolizes utter
destructiveness.&mdash;Dan. 7:11.
</p>

<p>
19:21. <hi rend='sans'>And the remnant.</hi>&mdash;The <emph>people</emph> who are left after
their <emph>systems</emph> are destroyed.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Were slain with the sword of Him that sat upon the
horse.</hi>&mdash;Will, in due time, come into loving and cheerful
submission to the truth.&mdash;Rev. 19:15; 2 Cor. 10:4.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which sword proceeded out of His mouth.</hi>&mdash;All should be
able to see that it is not a literal sword that is here
referred to.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And all the fowls were filled with their flesh.</hi>&mdash;See Rev.
19:18.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='299'/><anchor id='Pg299'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Revelation 20&mdash;The Thousand Years' Reign</head>

<p>
20:1. <hi rend='sans'>And I saw an Angel come down [from Heaven].</hi>&mdash;The
Messenger of the Covenant at His Second Advent.&mdash;Mal.
3:1.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Having the key of the [bottomless pit] ABYSS.</hi>&mdash;Only
Infinite Wisdom could provide the key to the solution of
present difficulties in the earth. Here is a system of
superstition and crime two thousand years old, and the
praise and service of it ingrained into nearly every human
being. All literature is poisoned with it. Public opinion
is for it. The educated, the refined, the wealthy, the
powerful are all for it and all against any change that
would give the lower strata of society a fair chance. To
overcome conditions like this is a task for Divinity itself.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And a great chain in His hand.</hi>&mdash;The TRUTH, as contained
in the Seven Volumes of <hi rend='italic'>Scripture Studies</hi>. This
chain of Truth has been forged, link by link, over a period
of forty years. Each volume has made it more certain
that old systems can never hope to stand against it.
</p>

<p>
20:2. <hi rend='sans'>And He laid hold on the dragon.</hi>&mdash;The iniquitous
system of civil government which has associated with it
the principle of holding the masses in subjection by preying
upon their fears beyond this life. The subject of
special condemnation in this regard, the masterpiece of
Satan, is the old Roman Empire, still living in the Papacy
and the Church-State governments of Europe. This system
is about contemporaneous with the (seven) Times of
the Gentiles (2520 years ending in Oct., 1914), which began
in the Fall of 607 B. C., or, as we would say, at the beginning
of 606, Jewish Time. Rome was already well started
on its upward path at that time. <q>Lucius Tarquinius
Priscus, fifth legendary king of Rome, 616-578 B. C., appointed
guardian to the sons of Ancus Marcius, he succeeded
in supplanting them on the throne on their father's
death. He laid out the Circus Maximus, instituted the
great games, built the great sewers, and began the construction
of the temple of Jupiter on the Capitol. He
removed from Tarquinii in Etruria to Rome by the advice
of his wife, the prophetess Tanaquil. Tanaquil was famous
for her shrewdness and prophetic gifts, which enabled her
to foretell the future greatness of her husband.</q> (Brit.)
</p>

<pb n='300'/><anchor id='Pg300'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That old serpent, which is the Devil, and Satan.</hi>&mdash;<q>While
the name Old Serpent includes Satan, <q>the prince
of devils,</q> it is here evidently used as a synonym for all
the sinful agencies and powers which had their rise in
him.</q> (S. 32.) <q>Our Lord's declaration that Satan is the
great Adversary, not only of God, but of humanity, is by
no means a fancy sketch, but the plain truth. Satan alone
is the wilful, intelligent plotter and schemer who uses a
superhuman intelligence and, so far as permitted, superhuman
powers, in opposing righteousness and truth and
those who are of the Truth. The inspired record asserts,
persistently and consistently, that Satan began the rebellion
against the divine law, and seduced our first parents
into disobedience, through his own ambition for power;
and that since man's fall this same Adversary has been
the implacable opponent of God, of righteousness and of
truth; and not only the ensnarer of mankind, but the opposer
of the great Plan of Atonement which God devised
and is prosecuting through Christ. From the Scriptural
account it does not appear that Satan had any sympathizers
or associate conspirators amongst the angels at the
time of his secession and attempt to establish a lordship
or dominion of his own in the earth.</q>&mdash;F. 611.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And bound him.</hi>&mdash;<q><q>The god of this world has blinded the
minds of them which believe not, lest the light of the glorious
gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should
shine unto them.</q> (2 Cor. 4:4.) God wills that all should
be so saved from all the train of evils following Adam's
sin and curse, that they may come to a knowledge of the
Truth. Why does He will this? To the intent that having
a clear knowledge of the Truth they may make the very
best possible use of the new trial for life secured for them
by their Redeemer's Ransom-sacrifice. It is for the carrying
out of this, God's will, that the Redeemer will inaugurate
His Millennial Kingdom, which will first bind Satan
(restrain all outside evil influences) and then release man
from his blindness;&mdash;as it is written, <q>the eyes of the blind
shall be opened.</q> (Isa. 35:5.) For the same reason, <hi rend='italic'>viz.</hi>,
that the new trial shall be most favorable for man, it is
the Divine arrangement that its work shall be done gradually
and require a thousand years.</q> (E. <hi rend='italic'>480</hi>, 470.) <q>The
Millennial Day is dawning, with its change of earth's rulership
from the control of the <q>prince of this world</q> and his
faithful, to the control of Him <q>whose right it is</q> (by purchase)
and His faithful saints. We have seen that though
the result of this change will be a great blessing; yet the
time of the transfer, while the present prince, the <q>strong
man,</q> is being bound and his household driven out of power
<pb n='301'/><anchor id='Pg301'/>
(Matt. 12:29), will be a time of intense trouble.</q> (C. 341.)
<q>In reference to it Jesus said, <q>No man can enter into a
strong man's house and spoil his goods, except he will first
bind the strong man, and then he will spoil his house.</q>
(Mark 3:22-27; Luke 11:22.) This effective binding of
Satan is accordingly shown to be the first work of the
New Dispensation.</q> (A. 68.) <q>The Adversary's every deceptive
and misleading influence will be restrained&mdash;so
that evil shall no longer appear to men to be good, nor
good appear undesirable, evil. Truth shall no longer appear
to men untrue, nor falsehoods be caused to appear
true.</q> (D. 519.) <q>The words of inspiration give us to understand
that Satan's struggles to retain control of mankind
will be especially desperate at its close.</q>&mdash;S. 78.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>A thousand years.</hi>&mdash;The Millennial Day, the Day of the
Lord's rest, following the six thousand years of evil which
ended in 1874. <q>One Day is with the Lord as a thousand
years.</q> (2 Pet. 3:8; Psa. 90:4.) <q>It was the claim of the
Papacy that the thousand years of Christ's Reign, the
Millennium, promised in Scripture to follow Christ's Second
Advent, began in the year 800 A. D., under Pope Leo
III., who claimed to be the representative of Christ, His
vice-gerent, to begin Christ's Reign in His stead. In that
year the <q>Papal states</q> were ceded to the Church by Emperor
Charlemagne. Their <q>Millennium</q> ended, it was
claimed, in the year 1799, when Napoleon confiscated the
territories granted to the Church and took the Pope, Pius
VI., a captive to France, where he died. The succeeding
freedom from Papal persecution, and the widespread circulation
of the Bible in the languages of the people, was
declared by the Papal leaders to be the <q>little season</q>
(Rev. 20:3) to follow the thousand-year Reign of Christ on
earth; and they are hoping that soon they will regain their
former power and prestige and once more reign supreme,
and that their rule will be permanent. This Papal Millennium
is known in history as the <q>Dark Ages.</q> During those
dark centuries millions were tortured, exiled and murdered
for refusing to bow to the mandates of the apostate Church,
under the leadership of Popes, Bishops and priests. Agents
and spies were employed to apprehend and bring to punishment
any who were found to express sentiments contrary
to the Papal hierarchy, or who failed to bow in
abject submission to their authority. Thus were the nations
of Europe paganized, and steeped in error and superstition
and in reverence for men who falsely claimed to
be the special and authorized representatives of God on
earth. They presumed to have authority to alter the Laws
of God when it seemed advisable to them to do so, and
<pb n='302'/><anchor id='Pg302'/>
thought to change the time for the Reign of Christ as
we have shown.</q> (Dan. 7:25; Z. '16-181; B. 354.) <q><q>Those
who lived next to the Apostles, and the whole Church for
300 years, understood them [the <q>Thousand Years</q>] in the
plain literal sense.</q> According to Jewish theology, as collected
from the Talmud, Messiah is to gather in from the
Dispersion all the scattered descendants of the Tribes, to
discomfit their foreign oppressors, and from Jerusalem as
a centre to rule over the whole earth which is to be a
scene of temporal enjoyment and prosperity. Thus R. Salomon
writes: <q>It is fixed that the world shall stand for
6000 years, according to the number of the days of the
week; but on the <emph>seventh</emph> Day is the Sabbath, and during
the <emph>seventh</emph> Millennium the world has rest.</q></q>&mdash;Cook.
</p>

<p>
20:3. <hi rend='sans'>And cast him into the [bottomless pit] ABYSS.</hi>&mdash;Oblivion.
In this instance it signifies Satan's enforced
idleness, which will surely be oblivion for him after the
busy time he has had during the past six thousand years.
How small he will feel when he sees the Lord Jesus undo
in one thousand years all that he accomplished in six thousand!
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And shut him up, and set a seal upon him.</hi>&mdash;The Spirit
of Truth in the hearts of men; the desire to win the favor
of earth's new King, will deprive Satan of all his subjects.
All his evil companions, human and angelic, will be destroyed
in the Time of Trouble. Alone, idle and humiliated
constantly for a thousand years, is a punishment he
richly deserves.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That he should deceive the nations no more, till the
thousand years should be fulfilled.</hi>&mdash;<q>Some have become
so deluded by the sophistries of Satan, by which he has
deceived all nations, that they do not believe that there is
a God; others believe in Him as a great and powerful
adversary, without love or sympathy, ready and anxious
to torment them to all eternity; others are confused by
the Babel of conflicting reports that have reached them,
concerning the Divine character, and know not what to
believe; and, seeking to draw near unto God, are hindered
by their fears and by their ignorance.</q> (E. <hi rend='italic'>19</hi>, 18.) <q>The
trial, or judgment, of the overcomers of the Christian Dispensation
and of the Dispensation that preceded it, has
been much more severe than the trial of the world will be
in its judgment day; for these have had to withstand
Satan, the prince of this world, with all his wiles and
ensnarements, while in the world's judgment day Christ
will be reigning, and Satan will be bound, that he may not
deceive the nations. These have suffered persecution for
righteousness' sake, while then men will be rewarded for
<pb n='303'/><anchor id='Pg303'/>
righteousness, and punished only for unrighteousness.
These have had great stumbling blocks and snares in the
way, which will be removed when the world is placed on
trial. But though the trial of these two special companies
has been much more severe than the trial of the world will
be, the rewards are correspondingly greater.</q>&mdash;A. 146.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[And] after that he must be loosed a little season.</hi>&mdash;To
see who are in heart harmony with the Lord's will, and
who are governed by other motives. As evil will be bound
by the prompt infliction of punishment upon the would-be
evil-doer, so we may presume it will be loosed by allowing
evil deeds to go temporarily unpunished.&mdash;Rev. 20:8.
</p>

<p>
20:4. <hi rend='sans'>And I saw thrones, and they sat upon them.</hi>&mdash;The
thrones of present earthly kingdoms.&mdash;Z. '82-3-6.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And judgment was given unto them.</hi>&mdash;Judicial sentence
was passed upon them as unfit to longer continue. (Z. '82-3-6.)
This word is rendered condemnation in Luke 23:40;
Jas. 3:1; Jude 4.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And I saw the souls.</hi>&mdash;Persons, beings.&mdash;Z. '82-3-6.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of them that were beheaded for the witness of Jesus.</hi>&mdash;<q>All
constituting the Kingdom class are here referred to
as beheaded. The Apostle gives us the key, saying. <q>The
Head of every man is Christ; the head of the woman is
the man; and the Head of Christ is God.</q> (1 Cor. 11:3.)
As a woman who becomes a wife accepts her husband as
the head of the family (loses her name, her individuality,
to become his bride), so the Church accepts Christ as her
Head, and each member of the Church thus comes into
relationship with the Lord as a member of His Body. It
is required of every one who would be counted in as a
member of the true Church, that he should be not only
beheaded (lose his self-will), but that he shall be united
to the true Head of the Church and recognize himself as
a member of the true Body of Christ&mdash;<q>the Church of the
living God, whose names are written in Heaven.</q></q>&mdash;Z. '01-227;
Rev. 1:9; 19:10.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And for the word of God.</hi>&mdash;On account of the Word of
God and by means of it. We are <q>Begotten by the Word
of Truth,</q> and to live in fullest harmony with its every
precept, at any cost to the flesh, is the distinguishing peculiarity
of the overcoming Church of God. <q>Only now are
Bible students beginning to emerge from under the great
cloud of false doctrine which for fifteen hundred years has
misrepresented God and the Bible, putting darkness for
light. Only now can Bible study be prosecuted in its true
spirit, without the fear of man, which brings a snare. Only
now is there general education, which permits of Bible
study in this true sense. Only now have we the convenient
<pb n='304'/><anchor id='Pg304'/>
Bible, cheap and in every home. Only now have
we more leisure and opportunity for Bible study. Only
now have we good light by which to study.</q>&mdash;Z. '13-366.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[And which] IF ANY THEREFORE had not worshipped
the beast, neither his image.</hi>&mdash;See Rev. 13:13-18.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Neither had received his mark upon their [foreheads, or
in their hands] FOREHEAD AND ON THEIR HAND.</hi>&mdash;In
years to come millions will be surprised to know that they
had these marks of assent and service to Satan's empire.
<q>The gospel of Satan is not a system of revolutionary principles,
nor yet a programme of anarchy. It does not inspire
wars and strife, but peace and security. It does not set the
mother against her daughter and the father against his
son, but promotes the fraternal spirit whereby the race is
regarded as one great Brotherhood. It does not seek to
drag down and degrade the natural man, but to improve
and uplift him. To use a popular phrase, it appeals to
<q>the best, all that is good within us.</q> It aims to make
this world such a comfortable and congenial habitat that
the absence of Christ will not be felt and God will not be
needed. It endeavors to make men so satisfied with this
life that they shall be totally indifferent to the life hereafter.
It propagates the principles of self-sacrifice, mercy,
charity and benevolence, teaching men to live for the good
of others and to be kind to all. For those who observe
its conditions and obey its commands, it promises the
development of certain inherent occult powers, the solution
of the more recondite problems of man's constitution
and the accumulation of esoteric knowledge which is withheld
from the multitude. In short, it declares that all
who will eat of the forbidden fruit shall <q>be as gods.</q> The
gospel of Satan is one of works. The Devil's Delusion is
that we can be saved by our own works, and justified by our
own deeds. Whereas God tells us, <q>By grace are ye saved
through faith, ... not of works, lest any man should
boast.</q> And again, <q>Not by works of righteousness which
we have done, but according to His mercy He saved us.</q>&mdash;Eph.
2:8, 9; Tit. 3:5.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-42.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[And] they BOTH lived and reigned with Christ.</hi>&mdash;See
Rom. 8:17; 2 Tim. 2:12; Rev. 5:10.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>A thousand years.</hi>&mdash;<q>The loss of this hope by our forefathers
led on to all the grievous errors from which we are
now seeking to escape. Do we not still pray, <q>Thy Kingdom
come, Thy will be done on earth as it is done in
Heaven?</q> The Messiah's coming Kingdom is the key to the
world's blessing by Restitution back to human perfection
in a world-wide Eden.</q>&mdash;Pastor Russell. Observe how
many times this period is mentioned in Rev. 20:2-7.
</p>

<pb n='305'/><anchor id='Pg305'/>

<p>
20:5. <hi rend='sans'>[But the rest of the dead lived not again until the
thousand years were finished.]</hi>&mdash;<q>These words are not found
in the oldest and most reliable Greek MSS., the Sinaitic,
Vatican Nos. 1209 and 1160, nor the Syriac MS. However,
the repudiation of this clause is not essential to the <q>Plan</q>
as herein set forth; for the rest of the dead&mdash;the world at
large&mdash;will not live again in the full sense, in the perfect
sense that Adam lived before he sinned and came under
the sentence <q>dying thou shalt die.</q> Perfect life without
weakness or dying is the only sense in which God recognizes
the word life. From His standpoint all the world has
already lost life, is dying, and might now be more properly
described as dead than as alive.</q>&mdash;2 Cor. 5:14; Matt. 8:22.
</p>

<p>
<q>The word resurrection (Greek, <foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>anastasis</foreign>) signifies <hi rend='italic'>raising
up</hi>. As related to man, it signifies raising up man to
that condition from which he fell, to full perfection of
manhood&mdash;the thing lost through Adam. The process of
resurrection will be a gradual one, requiring the entire
Age for its full accomplishment; though the mere awakening
to a measure of life and consciousness, as at present
enjoyed, will of course be a momentary work. And since
anything short of perfect life is a condition of partial
death, it follows that, although the above words are no
part of the inspired record, it would be strictly true to
say that the rest of the dead will not live again (will not
regain the fulness of life lost) until the thousand years
of restitution and blessing are complete.</q>&mdash;A. 288.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>This is the First Resurrection.</hi>&mdash;<q>It is impossible for the
tongue to describe this great honor and dignity.</q>&mdash;1 Cor.
2:9; Pastor Russell.
</p>

<p>
20:6. <hi rend='sans'>Blessed and holy is he that hath part in the First
Resurrection.</hi>&mdash;<q><q>We shall be like Him [the glorified
<q>changed</q> Jesus], for we shall see Him <emph>as He is</emph>.</q> He is
a Spirit Being, <q>the <emph>express image of the Father's person</emph>,</q>
<q>far above angels, principalities and powers, and every
name that is named,</q> and hence, far above perfect manhood.
If we shall be like Him and share His glory and
His nature, it means that we too shall be images of the
Father's person, <q>whom no <emph>man</emph> hath seen nor can see,
dwelling in light which no <emph>man</emph> can approach unto;</q> but to
whom we can approach and whom we can see as He is,
because we have been <q>changed.</q> (1 John 3:2; 1 Tim.
6:16, 1:17; Exod. 33:20.) Lest any should misunderstand
him, the Apostle guards the above language by adding,
<q>As <emph>we</emph> [the Church] have borne the image of the earthly
[one], <emph>we</emph> shall also bear the image of the Heavenly
[One].</q> It is not the Apostle's thought that all shall bear
the image of the Heavenly One, in this sense, ever. Such
<pb n='306'/><anchor id='Pg306'/>
was not the design of our Creator. When He made man
He designed to have a <emph>fleshly</emph>, <emph>human earthly</emph> being, in His
own likeness [mentally, morally], to be the lord and ruler
of the earth, as the representative of His Heavenly Creator.</q>
(Gen. 1:26-28; Psa. 8:4-7; F. 722.) <q>If we know how
to reproduce the human voice, it gives us a little illustration
of how God, with His unlimited Power, can preserve
everything recorded by the convolutions of our brain, and
of how these could be preserved in the future absolutely&mdash;everything
by which we could know ourselves in the future.</q>&mdash;Z. '14-315.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>On such the Second Death hath no power.</hi>&mdash;Aside from
the Father and the Son, these are the only ones in the
Universe that will forever be beyond the possibility of
death.&mdash;Rev. 2:11; Rom. 2:7; 1 Tim. 6:16.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>But they shall be priests.</hi>&mdash;<q>The antitypical consecrating
of the antitypical priests is confined to the present Gospel
Age. It has progressed steadily since our Lord and Forerunner
<q>offered up Himself</q>&mdash;and will be complete before
this Age has fully ended. And if we fail to be among
the priests now, during the time of consecration, we cannot
be of them when they begin their service for the
people in the Kingdom, when these same priests (now
despised of men, but a <q>sweet savor to God</q>) will have the
title of King added, and will, with their Head, Jesus, rule
and bless all nations.</q>&mdash;T. 47; 1 Pet. 2:9; Rev. 1:6; 5:10.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of God and of Christ.</hi>&mdash;<q>No mention is made here of being
priests of the Holy Ghost as it would undoubtedly have
been mentioned if it had been the third person of the
<q>trinity.</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And shall reign with Him a thousand years.</hi>&mdash;<q>The <q>kingdoms
of this world,</q> even while being crushed by the
Kingdom of God, will be quite ignorant of the real cause
of their downfall,&mdash;until, in the close of this <q>day of wrath,</q>
the eyes of their understanding shall open, so that they
will see that a New Dispensation has dawned, and learn
that Immanuel has taken to Himself His great power, and
has begun His glorious and righteous Reign.</q>&mdash;C. 129; Rev.
20:4.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And when the thousand years are expired, Satan shall
be loosed out of his prison.</hi>&mdash;<q>It will be for only a little
season; for, his heart remaining unchanged, he will soon
see a new avenue to the success of his long-cherished ambition.
He will see not merely a perfect human pair
with power to produce a mighty race destined to live forever,
but a race restored to life and vigor. His thought
will be, <q>If I can win this mighty race to my standard, my
triumph and exaltation will be speedily accomplished.</q>
<pb n='307'/><anchor id='Pg307'/>
Again, therefore, he will figure as a leader, though, as
now, unrecognized by men. Doubtless the temptation will
again rest upon his old doctrine&mdash;that they shall not surely
die, even if they do disregard the will of God.</q>&mdash;Z. '94-251.
</p>

<p>
20:8. <hi rend='sans'>And shall go out to deceive all the nations.</hi>&mdash;<q>At
the close of the Millennial Age there will be a 'harvest'
time, for sifting and separating amongst the billions of
human beings then living, each of whom will have enjoyed
a full opportunity of attaining perfection. The Harvest of
the Millennial Age will witness the complete separation of
the <q>goats</q> from the <q>sheep.</q></q> (D. 644.) <q>While the blessing
of the Lord will provide an abundance for all, nevertheless
we may safely assume that the provision will be
in the hands of their fellows. It will be the 'sheep' that
will be especially interested in, praying for and preparing
for, those who are in the great prison-house of death.
And by so engaging their time and energy these <q>sheep</q>
will be manifesting a purpose, a will, in harmony with
that of the Creator. (John 5:28, 29.) Any one not interested
in that work will be lacking in God's Spirit; and
this is what is charged against the goat-class.</q>&mdash;Z. '14-268.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[Which are] in the four [quarters of the earth] CORNERS,
Gog.</hi>&mdash;Proud (Gog means high), Natural Israelites.
(1 Chr. 5:3, 4.) <q><q>Ye [proud and unfaithful Jews] shall see
Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and all the Prophets in the
Kingdom of God [the earthly phase], and ye yourselves
thrust out,</q> (Luke 13:28).</q>&mdash;Z. '07-302.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And Magog.</hi>&mdash;Those who, during the Gospel Age, were
nominal Spiritual Israelites, but at heart were never anything
but <q>tares</q> and always remain such. Magog was
the descendant of Japheth. (Gen. 10:2.) Europe was peopled
by his descendants, and it was to them that the
Gospel call of the Age now ending was by Divine appointment
sent. (Acts 16:6, 9.) The Gospel was sent into
Europe that it might be demonstrated that God could call
and make into Christlike characters representatives of
even the most cruel, bloodthirsty, quarrelsome, rapacious
people on earth. Such they are. Japan is proof that contact
with Europeans will in a generation transform a contented,
peace-loving people into a people of unbounded
ambition, imbued with the spirit of the very Devil.&mdash;Ezek.
38:2; 39:1.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>AND to gather them together to battle.</hi>&mdash;<q>When at the
close of the Millennial Age all the obedient of mankind
shall have attained all that was lost in Adam and redeemed
by Christ&mdash;then all, armed with complete knowledge and
experience, and hence fully able to stand the test, will be
tested severely (as was Adam), but individually, and only
<pb n='308'/><anchor id='Pg308'/>
those found in fullest heart-sympathy, as well as in outward
harmony, with God and His righteous arrangements,
will be permitted to go beyond the Millennium into the
everlasting future or <q>world [age] without end.</q> All others
will be destroyed in the Second Death.</q> (E. <hi rend='italic'>418</hi>, 402.)
<q>We read, regarding that testing, that Satan will endeavor
to lead astray all mankind, whose numbers will then be as
the sand of the sea for multitude; but that many of them
will choose evil and disobedience, with past experience
before them, and unhampered by present weaknesses and
blinding influences, we do not suppose.</q>&mdash;H. 62.
</p>

<p>
20:9. <hi rend='sans'>And they went up on the breadth of the earth.</hi>&mdash;<q>Building
upon a supposed weakness in the Divine character,
these may be led to try to take advantage of the
grace (favor) of God, and to use it as a license for wilful
sin.</q>&mdash;H. 62.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And compassed the camp of the saints about.</hi>&mdash;<q>Just as
in Great Britain, the people have gone to Parliament to
protest, so the rebellious faction of mankind will protest
against their faithful princes. The separation of the Ancient
Worthies from the rest of the world seems to imply
that God has some special purpose in respect to them.
The term camp itself implies that theirs is only a temporary
condition or arrangement, and that God has some
better thing in store for them.</q> (Z. '13-53.) <q>The noble
work of elevating the race by sure and steady steps (under
the direction of the unseen spiritual members of the Kingdom)
is the high honor to which the Ancient Worthies are
appointed, and for which they will come forth prepared
soon after the final wreck of the kingdoms of this world.</q>
(A. 291.) <q>Israel as a nation will be the first among the
nations to come into harmony with the new order of
things; the earthly Jerusalem will be rebuilt upon her old
heaps; and their polity will be restored as in the beginning
under princes or judges. (Isa. 1:26; Psa. 45:16; Jer.
30:18.)</q> (A. 294.) <q>Abraham, Isaac and Jacob and all the
Prophets</q> and Ancient Worthies referred to by our Lord
and by the Apostles (Matt. 8:11; Heb. 11:4-40), having
passed their trial, will be awakened from death perfect.
</p>

<p>
<q>Just as Adam, while perfect, before transgression, could
commune direct with the Heavenly powers, so will these
Worthies commune, when restored to the same state of
perfection.</q> (D. 619.) <q>The veil which Moses wore before
the people, but laid off when with the Lord in the Mount
would seem to typify the earthly phase of his Kingdom,
the <q>princes in all the earth,</q></q> (D. 630.) <q>The friendship
of David and Jonathan seems to be suggestive of that
beautiful accord which shall exist between the glorified
<pb n='309'/><anchor id='Pg309'/>
Church and the earthly princes who shall be next to them
in the Kingdom of God. Each will be delighted to fill his
honored place in the wonderful Plan of God, and will love
the other as his own soul.</q> (Z. '95-291.) <q>As we consider
the heavens, the work of God's hands, and the innumerable
worlds therein under preparation for inhabitants, we
may reasonably suppose that these Ancient Worthies, who
were faithful during the reign of evil, even unto death,
will have some further honorable service, not only during
the Millennial Age, but subsequently. For various reasons,
therefore, we rank them higher in honor than the Great
Company.</q> (Z. '04-313.) <q>These Ancient Worthies will be
unlike the remainder of mankind, not alone in the fact
that their trial is past while the trial of the world in general
will just be beginning; but they will be unlike them
also in the fact that they will have attained the reward
of their faithfulness&mdash;they will be perfect men. When
Abraham, Isaac, Jacob and all the Ancient Worthies have
been resurrected, and shall appear amongst the regathered
Israelites, their perfect minds will quickly grasp present-day
knowledge and inventions. (John 7:15.) And as
Jesus taught the people positively, definitely, clearly, and
not doubtfully and in a confused way, as did the scribes,
so it will be with the perfected Ancient Worthies, when
they appear amongst men.</q>&mdash;D. 625.
</p>

<p>
<q>Isa. 11:10 points us to the Millennial Day, and another
root of Jesse, as connected with the blessing of the Gentiles.
This latter seed seems to be referred to also in
Heb. 11:39, 40. The Ancient Worthies shall not only be
the princes, the representatives of the spiritual, invisible
Kingdom, but also grand ensigns or standards set up before
mankind, as illustrations of what all mankind may
attain unto.</q> (Z. '98-312.) <q>The painful experiences of the
Ancient Worthies during the Jewish age will be a store of
blessings, instruction and help, by which they, when made
subordinate <q>princes</q> in the Kingdom, will assist in the
restitution work.</q> (T. 111.) <q>While the Worthies are not
in any sense part of the Sin-Offering, they are nevertheless
connected with the cleansing from sin: their ashes
(the knowledge and remembrance of their faithfulness
unto death), mingled with the water of Truth, and applied
with the purgative, cleansing hyssop, is valuable, purifying,
sanctifying.</q> (T. 108.) <q rend='pre'>The service which the Ancient
Worthies will be given will be more than God would
ordinarily entrust to a perfect human being. It will be
a part of this service to deal with the imperfect, fallen
creatures and to help them up out of sin and imperfection.
While in one sense of the word this work is desirable,
<pb n='310'/><anchor id='Pg310'/>
yet it is not what a perfect human being would prefer.
These Ancient Worthies will come forth from the tomb
perfect; but during the entire Millennium they will be
amidst imperfect surroundings.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>A part of the evidence that the Ancient Worthies will
be made sharers of the spirit nature and become members
of the Great Company class is built upon the fact that
they seem to be represented typically by the tribe of Levi.
The fact that this tribe had no inheritance in the land
seems to imply that the Ancient Worthies will have no
earthly inheritance. Since the Heavenly Father has been
pleased to arrange for the Great Company a place on the
spirit plane, and since He is operating according to some
general principles of righteousness, we are inclined to
think that He may have something more for the Ancient
Worthies than will come to the remainder of mankind.
When Abraham was called upon to offer up his son Isaac,
he exhibited a degree of loyalty greater than the Great
Company will be called upon to manifest. Furthermore,
in Gen. 17:8, God said unto Abraham, <q>And I will give unto
thee and to thy seed after thee, the land wherein thou
art a stranger, all the land of Canaan, for an everlasting
possession; and I will be their God.</q> Two thousand years
later, St. Stephen said that God never gave Abraham so
much as a foot of the promised land (Acts 7:6); but he
implied that Abraham will yet receive that land and afterward
leave it to his posterity. If the land is to be given
to Abraham and his coadjutors, and then to be left to his
seed and mankind in general, the thought would seem to
be implied that the Ancient Worthies will pass to the
spirit nature.</q>&mdash;Z. '13-52.
</p>

<p>
<q><q>O Jerusalem, lift up thy voice with strength! [After
the Church, the Bride, has been glorified with the Lord, the
faithful ones of the fleshly seed of Abraham will begin to
come into prominence before the world by reason of the
leaders whom God will then raise up for them.] Lift it
up, be not afraid; say unto the cities of Judah [all who
shall then be in covenant relationship with God], Behold!
Your God is here!</q> [Thus the message now given by
<q>the feet</q> of Christ&mdash;that the Millennial Kingdom is already
beginning its rule (Isa. 52:7)&mdash;will be taken up by
the earthly class when the <q>feet of Him</q> have passed beyond
the veil.]&mdash;Isa. 40:9.</q>&mdash;Z. '92-78.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the beloved city.</hi>&mdash;<q>The <q>beloved city</q> is the New
Jerusalem, the Church in glory, not the Church in the
flesh. The rebellion incited by Satan will be not only
against the earthly princes, but also against The Christ.</q>&mdash;Z. '13-53.
</p>

<pb n='311'/><anchor id='Pg311'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And fire came down from God out of Heaven, and devoured
them.</hi>&mdash;They will be instantaneously and mercifully
electrocuted, not tormented.
</p>

<p>
20:10. <hi rend='sans'>And the devil that deceived them was cast into
the Lake of Fire and Brimstone.</hi>&mdash;<q>He is to be destroyed,
together with all his angels&mdash;his messengers, all who follow
his leading and his course.&mdash;Matt. 25:41; Heb. 2:14.</q>&mdash;F. 619.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Where the beast and WHERE the false prophet are.</hi>&mdash;Papacy
and the Protestant Church Federation will have
been in destruction a thousand years at the time this
Scripture is fulfilled.&mdash;Rev. 13:11, 13, 14, 15; 14:9, 11;
15:2; 16:2, 13; 19:20; 20:10; Matt. 24:24.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And shall be tormented day and night for ever and
ever.</hi>&mdash;The Seven Volumes of <hi rend='italic'>Scripture Studies</hi> are the
instruments the Lord is using to bring these iniquitous
systems to their end; and so long as these books remain,
the torment of these systems will be in evidence. The
systems will cease, but the <q>Seven Plagues</q> will continue
forever.&mdash;Rev. 14:11; 19:3.
</p>

<p>
20:11. <hi rend='sans'>And I saw a great white Throne.</hi>&mdash;<q>The whiteness
of the Throne indicates the purity of the justice and
judgment which will be meted out.</q>&mdash;B. S. M.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And Him that sat on it.</hi>&mdash;<q>The Throne is Messiah's; it
represents His Mediatorial Dominion of earth for a thousand
years.</q>&mdash;B. S. M.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>From whose face the earth and the heaven fled away,
and there was found no place for them.</hi>&mdash;<q>The heavens and
earth which will flee from the presence of the great Immanuel
will not be the Heavens of God's Throne, nor the
earth which he has given to the children of men. The
heavens and earth which will flee away, and for which no
place will be found, are, of course, the symbolical ones.
The symbolic heavens represent spiritual influences&mdash;Ecclesiasticism,
Churchianity. Thus interpreted, our text
declares that when Messiah assumes control of the world,
the result will be that the social system of to-day, as well
as present-day ecclesiasticism, will pass out of existence&mdash;no
place will be found for them.</q> (B. S. M.) <q><q>Heaven and
earth</q>: To our Lord's contemporaries the religious and
social system under which they lived seemed almost as
fixed and as eternal as the earth and sky. Indeed, <q>heaven
and earth</q> appears to have been a name which they gave
to the then-existing order of things in recognition of what
they deemed its permanence and fixity.</q>&mdash;Weym.; Rev.
21:1; Dan. 2:35.
</p>

<p>
20:12. <hi rend='sans'>And I saw the dead, [small and] BOTH great AND
SMALL stand before [God] THE THRONE.</hi>&mdash;What a grand
<pb n='312'/><anchor id='Pg312'/>
privilege is that which awaits <q>Him whom man despiseth,
Him whom the nation abhorreth, a servant of rulers,</q> <q>That
thou mayest say to the prisoners [the twenty billions in
the prison-house of death], Go forth; to them that are in
[the] darkness [of the tomb], Show yourselves.</q> (Isa.
49:7, 9; Rev. 11:18; 19:5). (The dead are standing while
they are dead. See Rev. 20:5 comments.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the books were opened.</hi>&mdash;<q>The books of the Bible
will then all be opened&mdash;understood. All will then see
that the Golden Rules laid down by inspiration through
Moses and the Prophets, Jesus and His Apostles, are the
very ones which God will require of men in the future and
which Messiah will then enable the willing and obedient
to comply with by assisting them up out of their sin and
degradation.</q> (B. S. M.) The entire Word of God will
not be opened until after the Church is beyond the veil.
Much of it (perhaps nearly all) will be opened by the
Great Company class during the Time of Trouble, but some
of it may wait for the Prophets themselves. Meantime, all
that is necessary for salvation and service has been provided.&mdash;Dan.
7:10.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And another book was opened, which is the Book of
Life.</hi>&mdash;<q>In the great Day of the world's trial or Judgment
another Book of Life will be opened. A record will be
made of all who, by obedience, show themselves worthy of
everlasting life on the human plane.</q> (B. S. M.) <q>The
First Book of life is called the Lamb's Book of Life, containing
the names of the elect Church, His Bride. This
other Book of Life will be the book, or record, of those
who shall pass the restitutional trial or judgment satisfactorily.</q>&mdash;Z. '00-239.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the dead were judged.</hi>&mdash;<q>This judgment, or rulership,
cannot begin until Christ, whom Jehovah hath appointed
to be the Judge or Ruler of the world, has come again&mdash;not
again in humiliation, but in power and great glory:
not again to redeem the world, but to judge [rule] the
world in righteousness. A trial can in no case proceed
until the judge is on the bench and the court in session
at the appointed time.&mdash;Matt. 25:31.</q>&mdash;A. 345.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Out of those things which were written in the books.</hi>&mdash;<q>It
is by the Word of the Lord that men are judged (John
12:48-50); and not by the opinions or precedents of fellow-men
in any capacity. Therefore all should imitate the
noble Bereans who <q>searched the Scriptures daily</q> to see if
the things taught them were true. (Acts 17:11.) <q>To the
Law and to the Testimony; if they speak not according
to this word, it is because there is no light in them.</q>&mdash;See
1 Thes. 5:21; Isa. 8:20.</q>&mdash;D. 66.
</p>

<pb n='313'/><anchor id='Pg313'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>According to their works.</hi>&mdash;<q>The judgment of that time,
the test, will not be of faith; for knowledge will be universal,
and all the darkness and obscurity created by
ignorance and superstition will have passed away. The
test at that time will be of works, whereas the tests of
the Church at the present time are of faith.</q>&mdash;B. S. M.
</p>

<p>
20:13. <hi rend='sans'>And the sea.</hi>&mdash;The masses of mankind, not under
religious restraint&mdash;the condition of the whole world in
the time of anarchy due in its full severity in the fall of
1920. See page <ref target='Pg178'>178</ref>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Gave up the dead which were in it.</hi>&mdash;Earth's new Ruler
will deal first with those who survive the Time of Trouble,
reckoned dead, even though actually having a small measure
of life. When the Lord said, <q>Let the dead bury their
dead</q> (Matt. 8:22), He used the same word to describe
both classes. Those under the death sentence are counted
by the Lord in the same class with those upon whom the
sentence has been already executed. None but God's
people have <q>passed from death unto life.</q> (1 John 3:14.)
All the rest of the world, in God's sight, are dead.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And death.</hi>&mdash;<q>From the first, or Adamic death, a resurrection
has been provided. All that are in their graves
shall come forth. It was in view of God's plan for redeeming
the race from that first death that in both the Old
and New Testaments it is called a <q><emph>sleep</emph>.</q></q>&mdash;H. 58.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And hell.</hi>&mdash;<q>The dark, secret condition, the grave, which
in the present time speaks to us of a <emph>hope</emph> of future life
by God's resurrection power in Christ.</q>&mdash;Z. '10-41.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Delivered up the dead which were in them.</hi>&mdash;<q>Thus God
tells us through the Prophet, <q>I will ransom them from
the power of the grave [<foreign rend='italic'>Sheol</foreign>]. I will redeem them from
death.... O grave [<foreign rend='italic'>Sheol</foreign>] I will be thy destruction.</q>
(Hos. 13:14.) The first or Adamic death shall no longer
have liberty or power over men, as it has had for the
past six thousand years; no longer shall any die for
Adam's sin. (Rom. 5:12; Jer. 31:29, 30; Ezek. 18:2.)</q>&mdash;Z. '10-41.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And they were judged every man according to their
works.</hi>&mdash;<q>Since all mankind will not be raised at once, but
gradually, during the thousand years, each new group will
find an army of helpers in those who will have preceded
it. The love and benevolence which men will then show
to each other (the brethren of Christ) the King will count
as shown to Him. (Rom. 13:10.)</q>&mdash;Z. '10-39.
</p>

<p>
20:14. <hi rend='sans'>And death and hell were cast into the lake of
fire.</hi>&mdash;<q>The destruction of the first death and Hades commences
with the beginning of the Millennial Reign and
continues to its close. Hades (the grave) will be destroyed
<pb n='314'/><anchor id='Pg314'/>
when all the dead in it have heard the Lord's
voice and come forth. (John 5:25.) But <q>death</q> will still
have hold upon these, since every ache and pain and every
mental and moral imperfection is a part of the inherited
Adamic penalty. The millions awakened will be still
under condemnation, still in death; but in proportion as
they render obedience to the terms of the New Covenant,
progress will be made toward health, perfection and life.
On the other hand, those who, after full knowledge, refuse
to accept and personally apply the merit of the sacrifice
of Christ, will remain under condemnation; because their
wills consent to evil, they will progress toward the Second
Death. In the case of the obedient, death will be swallowed
up of life. In the case of the disobedient, death
will be swallowed up of the Second Death. (1 Cor. 15:26,
54, 55; Isa. 25:6-8.)</q>&mdash;H. 66.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>AND this is the Second Death; THE LAKE OF FIRE.</hi>&mdash;<q>This
destruction or death is called the Second Death in
contradistinction to the First or Adamic death, and not to
signify that everything which goes into it dies a second
time. For instance, death (the first or Adamic death), and
Hades, the grave, are to be cast into it, which work will
require the entire Millennium to accomplish it; and in no
sense will they ever have been destroyed before. So also
the devil, the beast, and the false prophet, will never have
been destroyed before.</q>&mdash;H. 58; Rev. 21:8.
</p>

<p>
20:15. <hi rend='sans'>And whosoever [was] SHALL not BE found
written in the Book of Life.</hi>&mdash;The writing, the judging, is
still future.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Was cast into the Lake of Fire.</hi>&mdash;<q>The Second Death,
during the Millennial Age, is a part of the utter destruction
which will include every improper, injurious and useless
thing. (Isa. 11:9; Psa. 101:5-8.) But the Second
Death, the sentence of that individual trial, will be final:
it will never be destroyed. We rejoice that there is no
danger of this, but that Divine Justice unites with Divine
Wisdom, Love and Power, to bring in everlasting righteousness
on a permanent basis.</q>&mdash;H. 67; Rev. 19:20; Psa.
50:22.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<quote rend='display'>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>A thousand years, earth's coming glory,</q></l>
<l>'Tis the glad Day so long foretold;</l>
<l>'Tis the bright Morn of Zion's glory</l>
<l>Prophets foresaw in times of old.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>What if the clouds do for a moment</q></l>
<l>Hide the blue sky where Morn appears?</l>
<l>Soon the glad Sun of Promise given</l>
<l><q rend='post'>Rises to shine a thousand years!</q></l>
</lg>

</quote>

</div>

<pb n='315'/><anchor id='Pg315'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Revelation 21&mdash;The Descending Kingdom</head>

<p>
21:1. <hi rend='sans'>And I saw a new heaven and a new earth.</hi>&mdash;<q>It
may be that this, rather than <q>the Millennium,</q> is the
name which we ought to give to the Golden Age, of purity
and bliss which next awaits the world. The words seem
to include a transformation and glorification of our material
globe.</q>&mdash;Weym.
</p>

<p>
<q>Paradise, the Garden of God, applicable as a name to
Eden, where our first parents resided, is Scripturally applied
to the new earth when Restitution blessings shall,
during the Millennium, have brought it to perfection. This
Paradise of the future is referred to by the Apostles as
<q>the third heaven,</q> and as <q>a new heavens and a new earth.</q>
(2 Corinthians 12:2; 2 Peter 3:13.) They are not referring
to new planets, nor to heavens ranged one above another,
as many have supposed, but to the third of three
great periods of time, beginning with man's creation and
extending into the illimitable future. The first of these
periods, termed the first heavens and earth&mdash;the old order
of things&mdash;passed away with the Deluge of Noah's day.
The second period, <q>the heavens and the earth which are
now,</q> the present order of things, are reserved of God
to pass away with a great symbolic fire of trouble&mdash;revolution,
etc.&mdash;which will utterly destroy the present spiritual
powers and the present social arrangements. (2 Peter
3:6, 7; Galatians 1:4; Zephaniah 3:8, 9.) The third
great period is to be a <q>world without end,</q> under Divine
administration. This will be the third heavens and the
third earth, or the new heavens and the new earth, which
will differ from the present condition of things in that
they will be righteous! whereas the present arrangement
is imperfect, unrighteous. The <q>new heavens</q> will consist
of the new spiritual ruling powers of the future&mdash;Christ
the Head, and the Church His Body.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-392.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For the first heaven and the first earth were passed
away.</hi>&mdash;<q>The Scriptures show us that in this general rupture
the nominal church (including all denominations) will
be gradually drawn more and more to the side of the governments
and the wealthy, will lose much of its influence
over the people, and will finally fall with the governments.
Thus the heavens [ecclesiastical rule] being on fire, will
<pb n='316'/><anchor id='Pg316'/>
pass away with a great hissing.</q> (A. 333.) Two of the
causes that operate to <q>burn</q> the present <q>earth</q> are declared
to be hunger, and the misrule of beastly governments.
(Deut. 32:24) In the end all will be glad to see
the unclean heavens pass away (Job 15:15) rent in twain
(Isa. 64:1) and the new heavens planted (Isa. 51:16) which
will be heard in their lightest petition to the God of all
grace (Hos. 2:21). <q>Drop down, ye Heavens from above.</q>&mdash;Isa.
45:8.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And there was no more sea.</hi>&mdash;<q>Under the control of the
new Heaven&mdash;spiritual powers&mdash;the reconstructed social
order will be so satisfactory, so complete, so thorough,
that there will be no more dissatisfied masses. Everything
will be reduced to law and order, obliterating the differences
of wealth and power as they now exist.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-392.
</p>

<p>
21:2. <hi rend='sans'>And I, [John] saw the Holy City, New Jerusalem.</hi>&mdash;<q>The
New Jerusalem is not <q>that great city [government]
which ruleth over the kings of the earth</q> (Revelation
17:18) but is the new Spiritual Government of the
Millennial Age. It is not reared by men; but, descends
from God out of Heaven. It is for this Kingdom, this
Government, that our Lord taught His disciples to pray,
<q>Thy Kingdom come; Thy will be done on earth, as it is
done in Heaven.</q></q>&mdash;Z. '16-392; Isa. 52:1; Matt. 5:35; Heb.
11:10, 16; 13:14; Rev. 3:12; 21:10; 11:2; 22:19.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Coming down [from God] out of Heaven, FROM GOD.</hi>&mdash;<q>We
are not to think of this Holy City as being composed
of literal stones, but of <q>living stones</q> (1 Peter 2:4-7;
Ephesians 2:19-22.) Neither Christ nor the saints in glory
can be seen of men. But the whole world will quickly be
made aware of the fact that a new Government has been
instituted&mdash;a government of righteousness and all power.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-392;
Heb. 11:10; 12:22; Rev. 3:12; 21:10.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.</hi>&mdash;<q>This
declaration implies its beauty, grandeur and perfection, as
a bride's adornment on such an occasion is particular and
elaborate to the last degree. Additionally, the statement
reminds us that in the government of the future the
world's judges are to be the saints selected throughout the
Gospel Age and frequently called <q>the Bride, the Lamb's
Wife.</q></q>&mdash;Z. '16-392; 2 Cor. 11:2; John 3:29; Eph. 5:31, 32.
</p>

<p>
21:3. <hi rend='sans'>And [I heard] a great voice.</hi>&mdash;The Lord Jesus, the
Father's Word.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[Out of heaven] WAS saying, OUT OF THE THRONE,
Behold the Tabernacle of God is with men.</hi>&mdash;<q>This verse
associates this City with the other figure of a symbolic
Temple, which the Lord is now preparing, of which the
<pb n='317'/><anchor id='Pg317'/>
saints will constitute the <q>pillars.</q> God will dwell in this
Temple, and the world of mankind will approach God in it
to receive the Divine blessings, as Israel approached the
typical Tabernacle and the Temple in their typical religious
services.</q> (Z. '01-199.) <q>When we think of the Church as
the Temple under construction, it impresses upon us the
thought that there is a future work to be accomplished.
Why construct a Temple, and then not use it? St. Paul
says, the Church is God's workmanship. (Ephesians 2:10.)
And His work will be so perfectly accomplished that there
will be no need of rectification or alteration beyond the
veil,&mdash;beautifully illustrated in the erection of Solomon's
Temple, of which we read that its stones were prepared at
the quarry and then finally assembled for the construction
of the Temple, and that they were so perfectly shaped and
marked for their various places that they came together
without the sound of a hammer.</q>&mdash;Z. '15-189; 2 Cor. 6:16.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And He [will dwell] DWELLETH with them and they
shall be His people.</hi>&mdash;<q>All mankind will be treated from the
standpoint of reconciliation, the Propitiation (price) for
the sins of the whole world (1 John 2:2) having been provided
at Calvary, and the due time having then come for
the manifestation of Divine favor.</q>&mdash;Z. '01-200; Psa. 68:18;
Ezek. 37:27; Zech. 8:8.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[And] God Himself shall be with them, [and be their
God].</hi>&mdash;<q>It will be the Kingdom of God, because God's dear
Son and His joint-heir, the Church, will be in absolute
accord with the Father, and all that shall be done under
their control will fully and completely represent the Divine
will respecting men. Nevertheless, it will be a separate
Kingdom from that of the remainder of the Universe,
as the Apostle Paul indicates. (1 Cor. 15:24, 25, 28.)</q>&mdash;Z. '01-200;
Jer. 30:22; 31:33; Ezek. 11:20.
</p>

<p>
21:4. <hi rend='sans'>And [God] HE shall wipe away all tears from
their eyes.</hi>&mdash;<q>The wiping away of tears implies a gradual
work, such as we see will be the process of that glorious
time. Man will not be exempt from every weakness and
trial and difficulty at the beginning, but if he will conform
to the Laws of the Kingdom, all cause for distress
will gradually pass away, as restitution blessings will lift
him out of death into life.</q>&mdash;Z. '01-200; Isa. 25:8; 65:19.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And there shall be no more death; neither sorrow nor
crying SHALL BE.</hi>&mdash;<q>What a glorious sun-burst of blessing
is in these words! What a grand fulfilment will be there of
the Apostle's declaration respecting <q>Times of Restitution
of all things which God hath spoken by the mouth of all
the holy Prophets since the world began</q>! The declaration,
however, applies to the very end of the Millennial Age,
<pb n='318'/><anchor id='Pg318'/>
and not in full to any previous time in that Age. (John
5:28, 29.)</q>&mdash;Z. '01-200; 1 Cor. 15:26, 54; Rev. 20:14; Isa.
35:10; 51:11; 65:19.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[Neither shall there be any more pain] For the former
things are passed away.</hi>&mdash;The reign of Satan, sin and
death will have ended forever. <q>To gain a place in the
earthly phase of the Kingdom of God will be to find the
gratification of every desire and ambition of the perfect
human heart.</q>&mdash;A. 291.
</p>

<p>
21:5. <hi rend='sans'>And He that sat upon the Throne said, Behold, I
make all things new.</hi>&mdash;<q>This expression does not relate
merely to rocks and trees, etc., but to the great work
which our Lord undertook; viz., the regeneration of humanity
to the complete perfection contemplated in the
original Divine Plan.</q>&mdash;Z. '01-201; Rev. 20:11.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And He said unto me, Write: for these words are [true
and] faithful, AND TRUE.</hi>&mdash;<q>Present conditions seem so
contrary to all this grand Restitution outcome that it cannot
be fully believed and trusted by any except those who
have learned to walk with the Lord. To all others these
things will appear untrue, and God will appear unfaithful,
and the matters which we are here discussing will seem
<q>idle tales,</q> as fables and golden fancies: but to us who believe,
these promises are precious.</q>&mdash;1 Pet. 2:7.
</p>

<p>
21:6. <hi rend='sans'>And He [said] SAITH unto me, [It is done.] I am
Alpha and Omega, the Beginning and the End.</hi>&mdash;<q>It was
the Father's good pleasure that the Blessed One, the Only
Begotten of the Father, should accomplish the entire program
of redemption and restitution; and be forever the
Associate and Representative of the Father, through whom
and by whom all things should continue, as He was the
one through whom all things were made that were made.</q>&mdash;Z. '01-201;
Rev. 1:8; 22:13.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>I will give unto him that is athirst of the fountain of
the water of life freely.</hi>&mdash;<q>It is this one who, during the
Millennial Age, will extend to all the willing and obedient
the Water of Life, everlasting life&mdash;the privilege of perpetual
existence. But they must thirst for it, must desire
it; and this desire must be manifest in obedience to the
terms, the laws, upon which it will be supplied freely.</q>&mdash;Z. '01-201;
Rev. 22:17; Isa. 55:1; John 7:37.
</p>

<p>
21:7. <hi rend='sans'>He that overcometh shall inherit [all] THESE
things.</hi>&mdash;These earthly things.&mdash;Acts 3:21.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And I will be his God, and he shall be My son.</hi>&mdash;<q>Those
addressed are not the Bride class, selected during the
Gospel Age, (1 John 3:2) but the sheep class of Matt. 25&mdash;such
of mankind as during the Millennial Age become the
Lord's sheep and obey His voice. They shall inherit the
<pb n='319'/><anchor id='Pg319'/>
earth, the purchased possession&mdash;which Jesus will restore
at the close of the Millennium to all the children of Adam
who shall have accepted His gracious favors and been regenerated
by Him, and thus become His sons, and He
their God&mdash;their Father. (Isa. 9:6)</q>&mdash;Z. '01-201; Zech. 8:8;
Heb. 8:10; Rom. 8:21.
</p>

<p>
21:8. <hi rend='sans'>But the fearful.</hi>&mdash;<q>If any, enlightened by the
Truth, and brought to a knowledge of the love of God, and
restored to human perfection, become <q>fearful,</q> and <q>draw
back</q> (Heb. 10:38, 39), they, with the unbelievers, will be
destroyed from among the people. (Acts 3:23.)</q>&mdash;A. 107.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And unbelieving.</hi>&mdash;Who will not trust God, after all the
marvels of His grace they will have seen and experienced.&mdash;Heb.
11:6; Rom. 10:17; John 20:31; John 17:20; 1 Tim.
6:12; Luke 17:5; James 2:17.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the abominable.</hi>&mdash;<q>Those abominable characters
among men, who, knowing the truth, yet love unrighteousness.</q>&mdash;H. 60.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And murderers.</hi>&mdash;Slanderers.&mdash;Psa. 141:3; Deut. 5:17;
Matt. 5:21, 22; 15:18-20; 1 John 3:15; James 3:2-12; James
4:11; Prov. 4:23, 24; Matt. 12:34-37; Eph. 4:31; Psa. 15:1-3;
19:14; 34:13; 101:5; Prov. 12:19; 16:28; 17:4; 26:20-21;
Jer. 20:10; 1 Cor. 10:10; James 1:19; Deut. 32:2.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And whoremongers.</hi>&mdash;Not at heart faithful to the Lord.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And sorcerers.</hi>&mdash;Dreamers, theorists, pseudo-philosophers,
endeavoring to accredit to themselves the great salvation
wrought.&mdash;Rev. 22:15.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And idolaters.</hi>&mdash;<q>Such as misappropriate and misuse Divine
favors, who give to self or any other creature or
thing that service and honor which belong to God.</q>&mdash;H. 63.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And all liars.</hi>&mdash;<q>All who do not love the Truth and seek
it, and at any cost defend and hold it.</q> (H. 63.) <q>If something
is six inches long, let it be just six inches for six
inches.</q>&mdash;Z. '12-147.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Shall have their part in the Lake which burneth with
fire and brimstone.</hi>&mdash;<q>The severest punishment inflicted
by the Jews upon any criminal. The corpse (after the
man had been stoned to death) was thrown out into the
Valley of Hinnom (Gay-Hinnom) and was devoured by the
worm or the flame.</q>&mdash;Weym.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which is the Second Death.</hi>&mdash;<q>Such company would be
repulsive to any honest, upright being. It is hard to tolerate
them now, but in the close of the Millennial Judgment,
when the Lord, the righteous Judge, shall have
given every advantage and opportunity of knowledge and
ability, the righteous will be glad when the corrupters of
the earth, and all their work and influence, shall be destroyed.</q>&mdash;H. 63.
</p>

<pb n='320'/><anchor id='Pg320'/>

<p>
21:9. <hi rend='sans'>And there came [unto me].</hi>&mdash;To the John class,
the Church, on this side of the veil.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>One of the seven angels.</hi>&mdash;The Seventh.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which had the seven vials full.</hi>&mdash;They are still full after
they are poured out on ecclesiasticism!
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the seven last plagues.</hi>&mdash;The Seven volumes of <hi rend='italic'>Studies
in the Scriptures</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And talked with me, saying, Come hither, I will shew
thee.</hi>&mdash;See Lu. 4:21.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The Bride, the Lamb's Wife.</hi>&mdash;<q>As a grand lesson of the
Divine sovereignty, and as a sublime contradiction to all
evolution theories, God elected to call to this place of
honor (as <q>the Bride, the Lamb's Wife and Joint-heir</q>&mdash;Rom.
8:17), not angels and cherubs, but some from among the
sinners redeemed by the precious blood of the Lamb. The
continued permission of evil is for the purpose of developing
these <q>members of the Body of Christ</q> and to furnish
them the opportunity of sacrificing their little and redeemed
all, in the service of Him who bought them with
His precious blood; and thus of developing in their hearts
His spiritual likeness, that when, at the end of the Age,
they are presented by their Lord and Redeemer before the
Father, God may see in them <q>the image of His Son.</q></q>&mdash;Col.
1:22; Rom. 8:29; E. <hi rend='italic'>412</hi>, 395; Rev. 19:7; 21:2.
</p>

<p>
21:10. <hi rend='sans'>And he carried me away in the Spirit.</hi>&mdash;<q>God
hath revealed them unto us by His Spirit.</q>&mdash;1 Cor. 2:10;
Rev. 1:10; 17:3.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To a great and high mountain.</hi>&mdash;How similar is the language,
recording the experience of the first and greatest
Member of the Church, at the beginning of His ministry.
Concerning the Lord's third temptation we read: <q>In this
temptation the Lord is taken, not physically, but in the
spirit of His mind, up into a high mountain&mdash;a very
exalted kingdom. Physically He was all this time in the
desert near Jerusalem; and as a matter of fact there is
neither in that desert nor anywhere in the world a mountain
from which all the kingdoms of the world could be
viewed except with the mind's eye.</q>&mdash;Z. '06-43.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url="images/img331.png" rend="width: 60%">
    <head>St. John's Vision of the Descending Kingdom</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And shewed me [that great] THE HOLY City, [The holy]
Jerusalem, descending out of Heaven from God.</hi>&mdash;The city
came down from Heaven to earth. If we went up to
Heaven, it would not be found there. If Rev. 21 is to be
literally interpreted, then the whole surface of Palestine
is far from sufficient to hold a city of this size. Besides,
its height, length and breadth were to be equal.&mdash;Rev. 21:2.
</p>

<p>
21:11. <hi rend='sans'>Having the glory [of] FROM God.</hi>&mdash;The Church
has a foretaste of this glory on this side of the veil.&mdash;1
Pet. 4:14.
</p>

<pb n='321'/><anchor id='Pg321'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[And] her light.</hi>&mdash;<q>The Lamb is the Light thereof.</q>&mdash;Rev.
21:23; 22:5.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Was like unto a stone most precious.</hi>&mdash;<q>The brightness
of His [the Father's] glory, and the express image of His
person.</q>&mdash;Heb. 1:3.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Even like a jasper stone, clear as crystal.</hi>&mdash;A beautiful
green-tinted diamond.&mdash;Rev. 4:3.
</p>

<p>
21:12 <hi rend='sans'>And [had] HAVING a wall great and high.</hi>&mdash;The
pictures here are all pictures of the Bride. Nevertheless,
the wall, the protection of that Heavenly City, in a special
sense represents our Heavenly Father. No picture of the
Bride would be complete that did not include Him who
dwells within us, who is the Author of the Plan, and the
Source of all our joys. Now as to the application of the
picture of the wall to the Bride herself, one of Pastor
Russell's coworkers has aptly said: <q>We are like living
<emph>stones</emph>, in the plural&mdash;144,000 stones in one, if you will.
There was one perfect Stone to begin with, and all the
others had to be conformed to the image of that Stone.
Men have discovered a way of taking two glasses of different
density and fusing them together, so you cannot
tell where the point of fusion is. And so, with this Little
Flock of 144,000, they are going to be welded together in
one&mdash;there will be but one mind in that whole 144,000.
There is only one thing they have in view, and that is to
perform Jehovah's will; and they rejoice in doing His will
absolutely.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And [had] HAVING twelve gates.</hi>&mdash;The twelve mystical
tribes of Israel.&mdash;Rev. 7:5-8; Ezek. 48:31-34.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And at the gates twelve angels, and THEIR names written
thereon.</hi>&mdash;The entire Little Flock; twelve thousand of
each tribe, each working together, under God's direction, as
one angel, or messenger. Doubtless certain special work is
reserved for each tribe. All who gain membership in that
tribe will be particularly suited to the work to which they
will be assigned.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which are the names of the twelve tribes of the children
of Israel.</hi>&mdash;Their names, and the characteristics they signify,
are given in Rev. 7:5-8.
</p>

<p>
21:13. <hi rend='sans'>On the East.</hi>&mdash;Toward the Sun-rising, toward the
Dawn, toward the Little Flock, specially honored and
blessed in their sacrifices on behalf of the Church. The
side of the Amramites.&mdash;Num. 3:19; F. 128.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Three gates.</hi>&mdash;The mystical tribe of Joseph, Benjamin
and Manasseh&mdash;Manasseh taking the place of Dan.&mdash;Ezek.
48:32; Rev. 7:5, 7, 8.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>AND on the North.</hi>&mdash;The side of the Merarites, the Great
Company.&mdash;Num. 3:33; F. 129.
</p>

<pb n='322'/><anchor id='Pg322'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Three gates.</hi>&mdash;The mystical tribes of Judah, Reuben
and Levi.&mdash;Ezek. 48:31; Rev. 7:5, 7.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>AND on the South.</hi>&mdash;The side of the Kohathites, the Ancient
Worthies.&mdash;Num. 4:2; F. 129.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Three gates.</hi>&mdash;The mystical tribes of Simeon, Issachar
and Zebulun.&mdash;Ezek. 48:33; Rev. 7:7, 8.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And on the West.</hi>&mdash;The side of the Gershonites, the Restitution
classes.&mdash;Num. 4:22; F. 129.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Three gates.</hi>&mdash;The mystical tribes of Gad, Asher and
Naphtali.&mdash;Ezek. 48:34; Rev. 7:5, 6.
</p>

<p>
Although the pictures here given are pictures of the
Bride, and the gates apply as above shown, nevertheless
these gates also represent the Ancient Worthies, who during
the Millennial Age will be the earthly representatives
of the Church, and, perhaps, exactly 144,000 in number.
Additionally, the Ancient Worthies are <emph>called</emph> <q>gates</q> in
Isa. 26:2. <q>The gates or entrances of the City, which are
twelve in number, are inscribed with the names of the
twelve tribes of Israel. This is in harmony with what we
have learned of the earthly phase of the Kingdom of God
that the Ancient Worthies from the various tribes of
Israel, selected during the Jewish Age, will be the visible
representatives of the Heavenly Kingdom in the earth
through whose instrumentality the nations may enter into
the blessings of the Kingdom.</q>&mdash;Z. '92-16.
</p>

<p>
<q>The city lies open and accessible to all quarters, and to
all quarters alike.</q>&mdash;Luke 13:29. Weym.
</p>

<p>
21:14. <hi rend='sans'>And the wall of the City had twelve foundations.</hi>&mdash;<q>The
Lord himself, is the foundation, <q>Other foundations
can no man lay than that is laid&mdash;Jesus Christ.</q> (1 Cor.
3:11.) He is the great Rock, and St. Peter's confession of
Him as such was, therefore, a rock testimonial&mdash;a declaration
of the foundation principles underlying the Divine
Plan. St. Peter disowned any pretension to being the
foundation-stone himself and properly classed himself to
with all the other <q>living stones</q> (Gr. <foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>lithos</foreign>,) of the
Church,&mdash;though <foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>petros</foreign>, rock, signifies a larger stone than
<foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>lithos</foreign>, and all the Apostles as <q>foundation</q> stones would in
the Divine Plan and order have a larger importance than
their brethren.</q>&mdash;F. 220; Matt. 16:18; Eph. 2:20.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And [in] ON them the TWELVE names of the Twelve
Apostles of the Lamb.</hi>&mdash;<q>We are entirely out of accord with
the views of Papacy, of the Protestant Episcopal Church, of
the Catholic-Apostolic Church, and of the Mormons, all of
whom claim that the number of the Apostles was not limited
to twelve, and that there have been successors since
their day who spoke and wrote with equal authority with
the original Twelve. (2 Cor. 11:13.)</q> (F. 209.) <q>We still have
<pb n='323'/><anchor id='Pg323'/>
with us the gift of Apostles, in that we have their teachings
in the New Testament, so full and complete as to require
no addition; and hence the Twelve Apostles have no
successors, and need none, since there are but <q>Twelve
Apostles of the Lamb;</q> they are the twelve stars; the
twelve foundations.'</q>&mdash;John 6:70; E. <hi rend='italic'>229</hi>, 207.
</p>

<p>
12:15. <hi rend='sans'>And he that talked with me.</hi>&mdash;Volume VII of
<hi rend='italic'>Studies in the Scriptures</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Had a [golden] MEASURING reed of gold.</hi>&mdash;The Divine
Word.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To measure the City, and the gates thereof, and the wall
thereof.</hi>&mdash;Surely, if we can not find the measurement in
the Scriptures it is hopeless to look elsewhere.&mdash;Zech. 2:1,
2; Rev. 11:1; Ezek. 40:3.
</p>

<p>
21:16. <hi rend='sans'>And the City lieth foursquare, and the length is
[as large] as the breadth.</hi>&mdash;A perfect cube, like the Most
Holy of the Tabernacle.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And he measured the City with the reed, twelve thousand
furlongs.</hi>&mdash;<q>The number of <q>buildings</q> in the City
seems to be indicated by the measures&mdash;12,000 times 12,000
furlongs equals 144,000,000 square furlongs. This area
contains 144,000 building-lots of one thousand square furlongs
each&mdash;which circumstance may well signify that the
144,000, faithful ones will reign with Jesus during a thousand
years (one square furlong representing a year.</q>)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The length and the breadth and the height of it are
equal.</hi>&mdash;Each view of the City, from any side, presents to
view, Justice, Power, Love and Wisdom.
</p>

<p>
21:17. <hi rend='sans'>And he measured the wall thereof.</hi>&mdash;Its thickness.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>An hundred and forty and four cubits, according to the
measure of a man.</hi>&mdash;The measure of a man, the Man
Christ Jesus, is 1,000. His Day is to be 1,000 years
in length. Adam's Day was a thousand years long.
The total measure is 144,000, the number of the Elect.
We should expect to find the number of those rescued
during the Millennium shown somewhere in these
measurements; and this we also find. The cubit, in symbolism,
is flexible in length, like the word <q>day.</q> If we multiply
the number of square furlongs in any wall by the
<hi rend='italic'>144 measures of a man</hi>, i. e., 144,000,000 X 144, the result is
20,736,000,000, the estimated number of the sheep class at
the end of the Millennial Age.&mdash;Matt. 25:34-40; Z. '05-271.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That is, of the angel.</hi>&mdash;As interpreted by the angel.
</p>

<p>
21:18. <hi rend='sans'>And the building of the wall of it was of jasper.</hi>&mdash;<q>The
solid fabric of the wall was jasper; and the city
itself was made of gold, resembling transparent glass.</q>&mdash;Weym.
</p>

<pb n='324'/><anchor id='Pg324'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the City was pure gold, like unto clear glass.</hi>&mdash;Of
Divine origin, and made up of those who have the Divine
nature.
</p>

<p>
21:19. <hi rend='sans'>And the foundations of the wall of the City were
garnished with all manner of precious stones.</hi>&mdash;Mosaic
manufacturers make 15,000 colors; and it is estimated the
trained eye can detect a million colors. In selecting and
polishing the 144,000 gems and putting them in place in
the Temple God is preparing a beautiful harmony of characters
in infinite variety that will delight the hearts of all
His creatures to all eternity.&mdash;1 Chron. 29:2.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The first foundation was jasper.</hi>&mdash;Likeness to the Father.
See comments on Rev. 4:3.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>AND the second, sapphire.</hi>&mdash;Faithfulness. The sapphire
of the ancients is the modern lapiz lazuli, or azure stone,
a mineral substance valued for decorative purposes in
consequence of the fine blue color which it usually presents.
It has the appearance of being spotted with gold
dust. <q>The stones of it are the place of sapphires: and
it hath dust of gold.</q> (Job. 28:6.) The brilliant spots
in the deep blue matrix invite comparison with the stars
in the firmament. The crystals form into units having
twelve equal sides. The blue is the color of faithfulness;
the gold shows the faithfulness towards God; the star-like
appearance shows the faithfulness towards all the
Heavenly beings&mdash;angels, archangels, and the Great Company;
the crystalline formation shows the faithfulness
towards the symbolical and actual twelve tribes of Israel
which, in the last analysis, include all who shall become
heirs of salvation. Those who gain the prize of the High
Calling can be trusted.&mdash;1 Cor. 4:2; Luke 16:10-12.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>AND the third, a chalcedony.</hi>&mdash;Obedience; Submission.
A green quartz, found in the copper mines of Chalcedon.
It crystallizes in the twelve-sided and twenty-four-sided
forms of cubic crystalline formation. In the twelve sided
crystals each side is a surface of five equal sides and
angles. The Church's obedience is perfect towards God
as indicated in the faces of the crystals, five being a
symbol of Divinity. It is operative towards the brethren
as in the twelve-faced crystals, and towards both phases of
the Kingdom, as in the twenty-four-sided crystals.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The fourth, an emerald.</hi>&mdash;Deathlessness. One of the
most beautiful of gems, of a bright green color, without
any mixture, crystallizing in long, hexagonal (six-sided)
crystals. The stone loses color when strongly heated.
From those originally imperfect (as shown in the six-sided
crystals) God is creating a race of deathless ones.
Nevertheless, though begotten to the Divine nature, should
<pb n='325'/><anchor id='Pg325'/>
they cling to the dross of their fleshly natures too determinedly,
so great fires may be applied to burn away the
dross as will destroy the value of the gem. This gem,
too, represents the Church's power to bestow life upon
the dead world. The crystals may be broken or split
crosswise. The everlasting life for the world, which may
be made continuous, is nevertheless susceptible of being
broken off at any time for disobedience.
</p>

<p>
21:20. <hi rend='sans'>The fifth, sardonyx.</hi>&mdash;Humility; Purity; Martyrdom.
An ornamental stone much used for seals and
cameos. It was considered by ancient oriental authorities
that a fine oriental sardonyx should have at least three
strata, a black base, a white intermediate center, and a
superficial layer of red; these colors typifying the three
cardinal virtues&mdash;humility, black; chastity, white; modesty
or martyrdom, red.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The sixth, sardius.</hi>&mdash;Loyalty to Christ. A reddish stone
much used by the ancients as a gem stone; it has been
in all ages the commonest of the stones used by the gem
engraver.&mdash;Rev. 4:3.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The seventh, chrysolyte.</hi>&mdash;Heavenly Wisdom. Greek
<foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>Chrysos</foreign>, gold, and <foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>lithos</foreign>, stone. The meaning of the term
makes it the golden stone. It is a gem of a golden color,
lightly tinted with green. It is very transparent. <q>The
wisdom that is from Above is first pure.</q>&mdash;Jas. 3:17.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The eighth, beryl.</hi>&mdash;Love of the Father. A pellucid gem
of a bluish green color, much prized as a gem stone by
the ancients. It crystallizes in the hexagonal system,
with sixty-six sides of various sizes and shapes. On each
of the six principal sides are diamond-shaped marks, alternately
five and eight marks to a side, with four marks at
the end. The sixty-six sides represent the sixty-six books
of the Bible; the two ends represent the Old and New
Testaments; the diamond shaped marks represent the
Heavenly Father; the three groups of eight each represent
the twenty-four prophecies of the kingdom; five is a symbol
of Divinity, and four represents Justice, Power, Wisdom
and Love.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The ninth, topaz.</hi>&mdash;Benevolence. It is generally held that
the mineral now called topaz was unknown to ancient
writers, and that their topaz is our peridot. This is the
name applied by jewelers to <q>noble olivine.</q> It is a dark,
decidedly green-colored mineral. Much mystery for a long
time surrounded the locality which yielded most of the
peridot for commerce; but it is now identified with the
island of St. John in the Red Sea, probably the <q>Topaz
Isle</q> of the ancients. It crystallizes in twenty-six-sided
figures. In some views&mdash;i. e., when the Great Company
<pb n='326'/><anchor id='Pg326'/>
or the classes that are to be destroyed are taken into
consideration&mdash;the tribes of Israel number thirteen; and
when Spiritual and Fleshly Israel are considered separately,
the total number is twenty-six. It is not the wish
of the Heavenly Father that any of these should perish,
and it is the wish of the Church to do all humanly and
Divinely possible to save the unworthy from the final
consequences of their own willfulness. This spirit will
be exercised to the last limit of love.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The tenth, chrysoprasus.</hi>&mdash;Constant, cheerful endurance.
The modern Chrysoberyl is a yellow or green gem stone,
remarkable for its hardness, being exceeded in this respect
only by the diamond and the jacinth. It is not infrequently
cloudy, due to microscopic cavities. The hardness signifies
ability to <q>endure hardness as good soldiers,</q> and the
clouds signify difficulties, troubles, to be overcome.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The eleventh, jacinth.</hi>&mdash;Unchangeableness. The modern
sapphire, next to the diamond in hardness; a beautiful
blue stone. Many of the crystals are parti-colored, the blue
being distributed in patches in a colorless stone; but by
skillful cutting the deep-colored portion may be caused
to impart color to the entire gem. This stone crystallizes
in the most beautiful and wonderful pattern conceivable,
consisting of a six-sided pyramid at either end, separated
by three different sets of surfaces of six each and two
different sets of surfaces of three each. We may think
of the two ends as representing the teachings of the
Twelve Apostles, and the twenty-four surfaces between
as representing the twenty-four elders (prophecies pertaining
to the Kingdom of God). God is unchangeable;
although the different operations of His Plan, in different
ages, make Him seem changeable to mankind. But the
perfected Plan will be the adoration of all His creatures.
This gem also shows how God can take characters whose
conduct may have been very irregular, and by skillful
cutting make them copies of Himself.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The twelfth, an amethyst.</hi>&mdash;Royalty. A stone of a violet
color, bordering on purple, composed of a strong blue and
deep red. The name is derived from the Greek <foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>a</foreign>, not,
and <foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>methyskein</foreign>, to intoxicate, expressing the old belief
that the stone protected its owner from strong drink. It
was held that wine drank out of a cup of amethyst would
not intoxicate. It crystallizes in double pyramids (base to
base) of three sides on each pyramid. Amethyst was
Pastor Russell's birth-stone; and behold how perfect its
application! He was true blue in his faithfulness, and
fully loyal to the blood of Christ, as shown by the red.
He has the royalty now, thank God! The cup which he
<pb n='327'/><anchor id='Pg327'/>
poured never intoxicated with error those who drank its
live-giving draughts from the Fountain of all Truth, our
Father's Word. The six-sided crystallization represents
his Six Volumes of <hi rend='italic'>Scripture Studies</hi>, and this, the
Seventh, a summary of all, represents the stone as a whole.
There are over ninety varieties of crystals in nature.
Surely, <q>The fool hath said in his heart, There is no God.</q>
</p>

<p>
The following is William Miller's dream, as given in
<hi rend='italic'>The Three Worlds</hi>, the first of Pastor Russell's books, long
since out of print, where it is told only as a dream. (Jer. 23:28.)
It calls to mind a dream of Pastor Russell's, often told
in private. In his early youth he dreamed of sleeping in
an attic. Suddenly he awoke to see the morning sun, just
emerged over the hill-top, blazing directly in his face.
He jumped to his feet with a start, thinking that it must
be late. In doing so he stumbled over several forms still
asleep. He was about to reproach himself for thus rudely
awakening them, when he discovered that not one of the
sleepers had been disturbed. The application is evident.
<q>The light shineth in darkness, and the darkness comprehendeth
it not.</q> Pastor Russell was awakened by the
light of the Sun of the New Day. He tried to waken
others, and succeeded with <q>just one here, one there;</q>
but the great mass are still asleep. However, the Dawn
comes on apace. Now for William Miller's dream:
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>I dreamed that God, by an unseen hand, had sent me
a curiously wrought casket, about ten inches long by six
square, made of ebony and pearls curiously inlaid. To
the casket there was a key attached. I immediately took
the key and opened the casket, when, to my wonder and
surprise, I found it filled with all sorts and sizes of jewels&mdash;diamonds,
precious stones&mdash;and gold and silver coin of
every dimension and value, beautifully arranged in their
several places in the casket; and thus arranged, they reflected
a light and glory equalled only by the sun. [These
jewels are the beautiful truths which the open casket unfolded
to his sight.] I thought it was my duty not to
enjoy this wonderful sight alone, although my heart was
overjoyed at the brilliancy, beauty and value of its contents.
I therefore placed it on a center-table in my room,
and gave out the word that all who had a desire might
come and see the most glorious and brilliant sight ever
seen by man in this life. The people began to come in,
at first few in number, but increasing to a crowd. When
they first looked into the casket, they would wonder and
shout for joy. But when the spectators increased, every
one would begin to trouble the jewels, taking them out
of the casket and scattering them on the table.</q>
</p>

<pb n='328'/><anchor id='Pg328'/>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>I began to think that the owner would require the
casket and jewels again at my hand; and that if I suffered
them to be scattered, I could never place them in their
places in the casket again as before, and felt I should
never be able to meet the accountability; for it would be
immense. I then began to plead with the people not to
handle them, nor take them out of the casket. But the
more I pleaded, the more they scattered; and now they
seemed to scatter them all over the room, on the floor,
and every piece of furniture in the room. I then saw that
among the genuine jewels and coin they had scattered an
innumerable quantity of spurious jewels and counterfeit
coin. I was highly incensed at their base conduct and
ingratitude, and reproved and reproached them for it; but
the more I reproved, the more they scattered the spurious
jewels and false coin among the genuine. I then became
vexed in my very soul, and began to use physical force to
push them out of the room; but while I was pushing out
one, three more would enter, and bring in dirt, shavings,
sand, and all manner of rubbish, until they had covered
every one of the true jewels, diamonds and coins from
sight. They also tore into pieces my casket and scattered
it among the rubbish. I thought that no man regarded
my sorrow or my anger. I became wholly discouraged
and disheartened, and sat down and wept. [When the
1844 time passed, how perfectly was this fullfilled.] While
I was thus weeping and mourning for my great loss and
accountability, I remembered God, and earnestly prayed
that He would send me help.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Immediately the door opened and a man entered the
room, when the other people all left it. Then he, having
a dirt brush in his hand, opened the windows and began
to brush the dust and rubbish from the room. I cried
to him to forbear; that there were some precious jewels
scattered among the rubbish. But he told me to fear not,
for he would take care of them. Then while he brushed
the dust and rubbish, the false jewels and counterfeit coin,
all rose and went out of the window like a cloud and the
wind carried them away. In the bustle I closed my eyes
for a moment. When I opened them the rubbish was all
gone, and the precious jewels, the diamonds, the gold and
the silver coins lay scattered in profusion all over the
room. He then placed on the table a casket, much larger
and more beautiful than the former, and gathered up the
jewels, the diamonds, the coins, by the handful, and cast
them into the casket, till not one was left, although some
of the diamonds were not bigger than the point of a pin.
He then called upon me to come and see. I looked into
<pb n='329'/><anchor id='Pg329'/>
the casket, but my eyes were dazzled with the sight. The
contents shone with ten times their former glory. I
thought that they had been scoured in the sand by the
feet of those wicked persons who had scattered and trod
them in the dust. They were arranged in beautiful order
in the casket&mdash;every one in its place&mdash;without any visible
pains on the part of the man [Pastor Russell] who cast
them in. I shouted for joy; and that shout awoke me.</q>
</p>

<p>
21:21. <hi rend='sans'>And the twelve gates were [twelve] pearls;
every several gate was of one pearl.</hi>&mdash;<q>The peculiar lustre
of a pearl is dependent on the fact that the surface is not
perfectly smooth, but covered with the irregularly sinuous
edges of innumerable layers of inconceivable thinness,
deposited one over the other. The distance of these edges
from each other varies indefinitely, the pearls of the finest
water having them closest. They are always, however,
too fine to be detected by the naked eye. The edges make
so many steps, so to speak; and the iridescence is produced
by the mutual interference of the rays of light
reflected from these thousands of angles. For their water,
or lustre, as distinguished from iridescence, pearls are
indebted to their being composed of thin layers, which
allow light to pass through them, while their numerous
surfaces disperse and reflect the light in such a manner
that it returns and mingles with that which is directly
reflected from the exterior. The thinner and more transparent
the constituent layers, the more perfect is the
lustre. The immediate occasion of the production of a
pearl appears to be always the presence of some extraneous
substance inside of the shell of the mollusk.</q> (McC.)
The mollusk is the earthly tabernacle; the extraneous substance
is the New Mind. The successive layers are the
additions made to it, <q>precept upon precept, precept upon
precept; line upon line, line upon line; here a little and
there a little.</q>&mdash;Isa. 28:13.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the street of the City was pure gold, as it were
transparent glass.</hi>&mdash;There will be but one street in that
City, the street which has been in process of construction
throughout the Age. The Prophets tell us of it.&mdash;Prov.
16:17; Isa. 40:3; 49:11; 35:8; 62:10-12.
</p>

<p>
21:22. <hi rend='sans'>And I saw no temple therein.</hi>&mdash;No special place
of worship, for the use and benefit of the Little Flock.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[For] BECAUSE the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb
are the Temple of it.</hi>&mdash;The Bride's whole life is completely
wrapped up in the Father and the Son. Her one consuming
wish is to glorify the Lord's dear name. Of what need
is any special place of worship for one who can say, <q>For to
me to live is [for] Christ [to live]?</q>&mdash;Phil. 1:21.
</p>

<pb n='330'/><anchor id='Pg330'/>

<p>
21:23. <hi rend='sans'>And the City had no need of the sun, neither
of the moon, to shine [in] ON it.</hi>&mdash;<q>The sun signifies the
light of this Gospel Age; the moon signifies the typically
reflected light of the Gospel in the Law and the Prophets
of the previous Dispensation. The glorified Church will
have no need of the light which in the present time she
so much enjoys through the Word and the Spirit, and the
Law and the Prophets. She will have, instead of these,
a much more excellent glory, being, herself, a part of the
Sun of Righteousness.</q> (Z. '01-201.) <q><q>Then shall the righteous
shine forth as the Sun in the Kingdom of their
Father</q>&mdash;our Lord Jesus, the Head of the Church, of course
being included. The Prophet mentions the same Sun of
Righteousness, saying, <q>The Sun of Righteousness shall
arise with healing in His beams.</q>&mdash;Malachi 4:2.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-393.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For the glory of God did lighten it, and the Lamb is the
light thereof.</hi>&mdash;<q>We are not to lose sight of the fact that
Christ is the Head of the Church, even as the Father is
the head of Christ Jesus. (1 Cor. 11:3.) Hence the Lord
God Almighty and the Lamb will always be an inner
Temple in this great Temple which God has provided for
the world's blessing during Restitution Times.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-393;
Isa. 24:23; 60:19, 20; Rev. 21:11; 22:5.
</p>

<p>
21:24. <hi rend='sans'>And the nations [of them which are saved] shall
walk [in] BY the light [of it] THEREOF.</hi>&mdash;<q>The word
<q>nations</q> here signifies peoples, and is intended to show that
all peoples, not merely the Israelites, will be thus favored
under God's Kingdom. The world will not be divided into
nationalities as at present.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-394; Isa. 60:3, 5.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the kings of the earth do bring their glory [and
honor] into it.</hi>&mdash;<q>When mankind reaches perfection at the
close of the Millennial Age, as already shown, they will
be admitted into membership in the Kingdom of God and
given the entire control of earth as at first designed&mdash;each
man a sovereign, a king.</q> (A. 296.) <q>That Kingdom, in
which all will be kings, will be one grand, universal Republic,
whose stability and blessed influence will be assured
by the perfection of its every citizen, a result now much
desired, but an impossibility because of sin.</q> (Z. '10-39.)
<q>During the Millennial Age the kings will be the Ancient
Worthies; but subsequently a New Dispensation will open,
under new conditions, in which mankind (perfected) will
be granted the privilege of ruling themselves in harmony
with the Divine Law.</q> (Z. '97-304.) In this verse the
Ancient Worthies are <emph>directly</emph> referred to; while in verse
26 the rest of mankind are referred to. Notice the tenses
of the verbs <q><emph>do</emph> bring</q> and <q><emph>shall</emph> bring</q>&mdash;present and future&mdash;in
the Millennium and after.
</p>

<pb n='331'/><anchor id='Pg331'/>

<p>
21:25. <hi rend='sans'>And the gates of it shall not be shut at all by
day.</hi>&mdash;Throughout the long Millennial Day of a thousand
years all who will may seek and find salvation through
the broad gates of the City of God that will then be wide
open. (Isa. 60:11.) Now, <q>Narrow is the way that leadeth
unto life, and few there be that find it.</q>&mdash;Matt. 7:14.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For there shall be no night there.</hi>&mdash;<q>The period in which
sin is permitted has been a dark Night to humanity, never
to be forgotten; but the glorious Day of righteousness and
Divine favor, to be ushered in by Messiah, who, as the
Sun of Righteousness, shall arise and shine fully and clearly
into and upon all, bringing healing and blessing, will
more than counterbalance the dreadful night of weeping,
sighing, pain, sickness and death, in which the groaning
creation has been so long. <q>Weeping may endure for a
night, but joy cometh in the morning.</q>&mdash;Psa. 30:5.</q> (A. 9.)
</p>

<p>
The Psalmist explains how the smile of the Father
was turned away from mankind. He describes mankind
as <q>Such as sit in darkness and in the shadow of death,
being bound in affliction and iron; because they rebelled
against the words of God [by disobedience of His express
command] and contemned [set at naught] the counsels of
the Most High. Therefore He brought down their heart
with labor [each sex with its own peculiar kind]; they
fell down, and there was none to help.</q> (Psa. 107:10-12.)
This disobedience brought our entire race into the Valley
of the Shadow of Death (Psa. 23:4); but the Prophets
encouraged us to hope for a watchman who would tell us
of the coming of the Day. (Isa. 21:12.) In the Apostle's
time he declared the night was far spent, being then more
than two-thirds gone. (Rom. 13:12.) The event that is
to bring in the Day is the rising of the Sun of Righteousness.
(Mal. 4:2.) When here at the First Advent Christ
was the light of the world (John 8:12); and the people
in His immediate neighborhood saw a great Light, shadowing
forth His coming glory. (Isa. 9:2.) He declared that
we, too, should be lights in the world. (Matt. 5:14.)&mdash;<q>You
in your little corner, and I in mine;</q> and that in
the resurrection all these 144,000 brightly burning candles
should be brought together and with Him constitute the
Sun of Righteousness that is to heal and bless the world.
<q>Then shall the righteous shine forth as the sun in the
Kingdom of their Father.</q>&mdash;Matt. 13:43.
</p>

<p>
The sun rises quietly, like a thief. (1 Thes. 5:1.) When
the Morning comes, the first work is banishing the works
of the night. (Ezek. 7:7-12.) Next comes the opening of
the spiritually blind eyes of those that have physical sight.
(Amos 5:18.) Surely, the best time for a great oculist to
<pb n='332'/><anchor id='Pg332'/>
open the eyes of the blind is in the day time. (Isa. 35:5.)
Now matters are more or less obscured (1 Cor. 13:12); but
the time is coming when the blind shall be shown a way
of life they have not hitherto known. (Isa. 42:16.) Will
the Lord show wonders in the dark? (Psa. 88:10.) He
will indeed; and when the nations come forth from the
tomb, they will seek Him that turneth the shadow of
death into the morning. (Amos 5:8; Isa. 42: 6, 7.) They
will seek Him and will find Him. No wonder, then, that
the Psalmist, looking down the stream of time to that
happy Day, exultingly exclaims, <q>Then [after full experience
with sin and death] they cried unto the Lord in
their trouble, and He saved them out of their distresses.
He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of
death, and brake their bands in sunder. Oh, that men
would praise the Lord for His goodness, and for His
wonderful works to the children of men! For He hath
broken the gates of brass [that stood between them and
perfection], and cut the bars of iron asunder [that held
them in death's prison house].</q> (Psa. 107:13-16.) <q>And
there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying,
neither shall there be any more pain; for the former things
are passed away.</q> (Rev. 21:4.) <q>For there shall be no
night there.</q> <q>Weeping may endure for a night, but joy
cometh in the Morning.</q>&mdash;Psa. 30:5; Zech. 14:7.
</p>

<p>
21:26. <hi rend='sans'>And they shall bring the glory and honor of the
nations into it.</hi>&mdash;<q>This rendering of glory to the Kingdom
will continue throughout the entire Millennial Age; for
the princes throughout the earth will make known to the
peoples that not in their own name or authority do they
rule and execute judgment and establish righteousness,
but in the name of the glorified Christ, Head and Body,
whose representatives they are.</q>&mdash;Z. '16-394.
</p>

<p>
21:27. <hi rend='sans'>And there shall in no wise enter into it anything
[that defileth] COMMON.</hi>&mdash;No one who could or would contaminate
others by speech or example, will ever find a place
in that City.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Neither whatsoever worketh abomination.</hi>&mdash;Nor anything
tending in the direction of pride or sectarianism.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Or maketh a lie.</hi>&mdash;Nor anything countenancing the
teaching of error for pleasure or profit.&mdash;1 John 2:22.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>But they which are written in the [Lamb's.] Book of THE
Life OF HEAVEN.</hi>&mdash;<q>The Lamb's Book of Life we must
understand to include only those who attain to the position
of joint-heirship with Christ, those whose names are
written in Heaven during this Gospel Age and who are
faithful to their Covenant. (Psa. 50:5.)</q>&mdash;Z. '16-394; Phil.
4:3; Rev. 3:5, 13:8.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='333'/><anchor id='Pg333'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Revelation 22&mdash;The River Of Grace And Truth</head>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url="images/img332.png" rend="width: 80%">
    <head>The River Of Life</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
22:1. <hi rend='sans'>And he showed me a [pure] River of Water of Life,
clear as crystal.</hi>&mdash;<q>One would think that, even with no
knowledge of the symbols of Revelation, no thinking Christian
should have any difficulty in realizing that the book
portrays trouble for the Church throughout this Gospel Age
and the triumphant Millennial Reign at its close.</q>&mdash;Z. '05-170;
Ezek. 47:1-12; Joel 3:18; Zech. 14:8; Psa. 46:4.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Proceeding out of the Throne of God and of the Lamb.</hi>&mdash;<q>The
Scriptures nowhere speak of the River of the Water
of Life now. There is none, and can be none until the
Heavenly City descends, for the river must flow from the
midst of it, from the Throne. Describing the condition of
the Lord's saints at the present time very differently, the
Lord declares that those who are His have in them a
well of water springing up into life eternal.</q>&mdash;Z. '05-172;
Ezek. 47:1; Zech. 14:8.
</p>

<p>
22:2. <hi rend='sans'>In the midst of the street of it.</hi>&mdash;In the midst of
the Highway of Holiness.&mdash;Rev. 21:21.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And on either side of the River.</hi>&mdash;Nourished and blessed
by the life-giving Waters of Truth.&mdash;Ezek. 47:12.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Was there the Tree of Life.</hi>&mdash;The Christ, Head and Body.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which bare twelve manner of fruits, and yielded her
[fruit] FRUITS every month.</hi>&mdash;Twelve kinds of fruit,
twelve times a year, for a thousand years&mdash;a total fruitage
of 144,000.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the leaves of the [tree] TREES were for the healing
of the nations.</hi>&mdash;<q>The symbolic picture suggests nourishment
and healing for the sin-sick, starving world, which
then may partake freely of all the blessings and privileges
thus symbolized.</q>&mdash;Z. '05-171; Rev. 21:24; Ezek. 47:12.
</p>

<p>
22:3. <hi rend='sans'>And there shall be no [more] curse.</hi>&mdash;<q>Instead of
the thorn shall come up the fir tree, and instead of the brier
shall come up the myrtle tree: and it [the removal of the
curse] shall be to the Lord for a name, for an everlasting
sign that shall not be cut off.</q> (Isa. 55:13.) <q>Upon no
subject is the testimony of the Scriptures more positive,
consistent and conclusive than on this subject of the curse,
its effects upon man, the redemption from it, and its ultimate
removal.</q>&mdash;E. <hi rend='italic'>421</hi>, 405.
</p>

<pb n='334'/><anchor id='Pg334'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>But the Throne of God and of the Lamb shall be in it.</hi>&mdash;<q>A
spiritual police force will have humanity under absolute
control. Every misdeed will be punished as soon as it
is determined upon and before it shall have been put into
effect. Likewise, every good act, good word and good
thought will bring a blessing of restitution, health, strength&mdash;mental,
moral, physical.</q>&mdash;Z. '15-267.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And His servants shall serve Him.</hi>&mdash;Beautiful inheritance
of the Great Company class.&mdash;Rev. 7:15.
</p>

<p>
22:4. <hi rend='sans'>And they shall see His face.</hi>&mdash;This will be worth
all they will be called upon to endure.&mdash;Matt. 5:8.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And His name shall be [in] ON their foreheads.</hi>&mdash;At
present many of this class do not have clear perceptions
of the Father's character. All misunderstandings will be
cleared up shortly. They only await the departure of the
last of the Elijah class, in the spring of 1918.
</p>

<p>
22:5. <hi rend='sans'>And there shall be no MORE night [there].</hi>&mdash;Doubtless,
at first, the Great Company's memories of her
dark night will be very keen.&mdash;Rev. 7:14; 21:23, 25.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And they need [no] NOT THE LIGHT OF A candle.</hi>&mdash;Light
from the Church in the flesh.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[Neither] AND light of the sun.</hi>&mdash;The Gospel, through
the Word.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For the Lord God [giveth] WILL GIVE them light.</hi>&mdash;<q>Blessed
are they which are <emph>called</emph> unto the Marriage
Supper of the Lamb.</q>&mdash;Rev. 19:9; 7:16-17; Psa. 84:11.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And they shall reign for ever and ever.</hi>&mdash;They&mdash;Christ
and His Bride, in whose blest Heavenly courts the Beloved
Bridesmaids will always find their happy station.&mdash;Dan.
7:27; 2 Tim. 2:12; Rev. 3:21.
</p>

<p>
22:6. <hi rend='sans'>And he.</hi>&mdash;The same angel mentioned in Rev. 1:1;
19:9, 10; representing Pastor Russell, beyond the veil.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Said unto me.</hi>&mdash;The John class, in the flesh.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>These sayings are faithful and true.</hi>&mdash;<q>There hath not
failed one word of all His good promise.</q>&mdash;1 Kings 8:56.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the Lord God of the [holy] SPIRITS OF THE
Prophets.</hi>&mdash;It is still possible to have the same spirit as
filled the Prophets of old, even though the prophecies
themselves have ceased to be miraculously uttered or interpreted.&mdash;1
Cor. 13:8.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Sent ME His angel to shew unto His servants the things
which must shortly be done.</hi>&mdash;Especially the events of the
immediate future.&mdash;Rev. 1:1.
</p>

<p>
22:7. <hi rend='sans'>AND behold I come quickly.</hi>&mdash;See Rev. 16:15;
22:10, 12, 20. Jesus is the speaker.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Blessed is he that keepeth the sayings of the prophecy
of this book.</hi>&mdash;The Elijah class, who see its clear import
and accept the responsibilities implied.&mdash;Rev. 1:3; 3:14.
</p>

<pb n='335'/><anchor id='Pg335'/>

<p>
22:8. <hi rend='sans'>And I John saw these things, and heard them.</hi>&mdash;Understood
them.&mdash;Rev. 1:3.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And when I had heard and seen, I fell down before the
feet of the angel which shewed me these things.</hi>&mdash;<q>This
may signify that in the end of this Gospel Age as the
whole Church, the John class, comes to see the unfolding
of the Divine Plan, there might be a spirit or disposition
amongst them to do too much honor to the one used of
the Lord in communicating to them the Divine light now
due.</q>&mdash;Z. '05-173; Judges 13:17, 18.
</p>

<p>
22:9. <hi rend='sans'>Then saith he unto me, see thou do it not: [for]
I am thy fellow-servant.</hi>&mdash;<q>The angel's refusal to accept
homage should be a lesson to all ministers (servants&mdash;messengers)
of God.</q>&mdash;Z. '96-305; Rev. 19:10.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And of thy brethren the Prophets.</hi>&mdash;Prophets, in the New
Testament use of the word, refer to Christian speakers.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And of them which keep the sayings of this book: worship
God.</hi>&mdash;<q>God alone should be worshiped: He is the
Author of the great Plan and will be the Finisher of it.
It is brought to our attention now by Him because it is
now <q>due time</q> for His people to come to an appreciation
of His plans.</q>&mdash;Z. '05-173.
</p>

<p>
22:10. <hi rend='sans'>And he saith unto me, Seal not [the] THESE sayings
of the prophecy of this book: for the time is at hand.</hi>&mdash;<q>Make
no secret,</q> he added, <q>of the meaning of the predictions
contained in this book; for the time for their fulfillment
is now close at hand.</q>&mdash;Weym.
</p>

<p>
22:11. <hi rend='sans'>He that is unjust, let him be unjust still.</hi>&mdash;<q>At
the time that the features of this symbolical Revelation
shall come to be understood and appreciated by the Lord's
people, they may know that the time of the completion is
near at hand. We are not to expect that the telling of
this Message will have the effect of converting the world.
It was not intended to do this and will not do it.</q>&mdash;Z. '05-173;
Dan. 12:10.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And he which is filthy, let him be filthy still.</hi>&mdash;<q>Present
Truth, although full of comfort and encouragement to the
Church in respect to their dear friends who are out of
Christ, has no effect whatever upon those who love sin,
who are filthy, who are unrighteous. The unrighteous and
the filthy simply ignore this message and are not moved
specially by it.</q>&mdash;Z. '05-173.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And he that is righteous, let him [be righteous] WORK
RIGHTEOUSNESS still.</hi>&mdash;<q>To lovers of righteousness, of
truth, the revelations of the Divine Plan now unfolding
commend themselves, and intensify their love for righteousness
and appreciation of full consecration to the Lord.</q>&mdash;Z. '05-173.
</p>

<pb n='336'/><anchor id='Pg336'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And he that is holy, let him be holy still.</hi>&mdash;<q>The word
seems to denote development and crystallization of character,
immediately preceding the coming of the great
Judge of all.</q> (Weym.) <q>Love is patient and kind. Love
knows neither envy nor jealousy. Love is not forward and
self-assertive, nor boastful and conceited. She does not
behave unbecomingly, nor seek to aggrandize herself, nor
blaze out passionate anger, nor brood over wrongs. She
finds no pleasure in injustice done to others, but joyfully
sides with the truth. She knows how to be silent. She
is full of trust, full of hope, full of patient endurance.</q>&mdash;1
Cor. 13:4-7.&mdash;Weym.
</p>

<p>
22:12. <hi rend='sans'>[And] behold, I come quickly.</hi>&mdash;See Rev. 16:15;
22:7, 10, 20. The Lord Himself becomes the speaker.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And My reward is with Me, to [give] BE GIVEN every
man.</hi>&mdash;Every man in Christ.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>According as his work [shall be] IS.</hi>&mdash;The Church's work
is practically finished. The reward is given on the basis
of the work already done, in character development and in
the natural outgrowth of that development&mdash;works.
</p>

<p>
22:13. <hi rend='sans'>I am Alpha and Omega, THE FIRST AND THE
LAST, the Beginning and the End, [the First and the Last].</hi>&mdash;<q>Our
Lord tells us over and over again (See Rev. 1:8, 11,
17; 2:8; 3:14; 21:6), that He is the Beginning and the
Ending, the First and the Last, of the creation of God.</q>&mdash;Z. '93-115.
</p>

<p>
22:14. <hi rend='sans'>Blessed are they that [do His commandments]
WASH THEIR ROBES.</hi>&mdash;The Great Company class.&mdash;Rev.
7:14.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That they may have right to the Tree of Life.</hi>&mdash;Rev. 22:2.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And may enter through the gates into the City.</hi>&mdash;<q>Whose
Builder and Maker is God.</q> (Heb. 11:10.) To these dear
brethren we would say, The object of your trials is to
remove the dross (Ex. 30:7; Mal. 3:2) that you may be
fit companions of the Christ. (Ex. 12:8; Heb. 2:17; Rom.
5:3; Col. 1:11.) Do not think it strange. (James 1:12;
1 Pet. 1:7; 4:12; 5:10.) When you get the right viewpoint,
you will rejoice in your sufferings. (Deut. 13:3;
Psa. 23:4; 119:67.) The trials will not last forever (Psa.
39:1); and in them all you may hear the songs of deliverance.
(Psa. 32:6, 7.) There is nothing to turn back to
(Heb. 10:38); but there is joy untold to look forward to,
and it is nigh.&mdash;Rev. 19:9; Psa. 45:14, 15.
</p>

<p>
22:15. <hi rend='sans'>[For] without are dogs.</hi>&mdash;There will be no clergy
class, as such, in the Kingdom.&mdash;Isa. 56:10; Phil. 3:2;
2 Tim. 3:8, 9.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And sorcerers, and whoremongers, and murderers, and
idolators.</hi>&mdash;See Rev. 21:8.
</p>

<pb n='337'/><anchor id='Pg337'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And whosoever [loveth and] maketh AND LOVETH a lie.</hi>&mdash;The
old lies will die hard; and some may try to carry
them far into the Time of Trouble, on the well-known
principle that if a pigeon's brains are removed, and the
wound allowed to heal, the bird will no longer seek its
food, though it can still swing on a perch and ruffle its
feathers and show fight. Ere long, however, the Truth
will be so manifest that all must give way before it.
</p>

<p>
22:16. <hi rend='sans'>I Jesus have sent mine angel to testify unto
you these things in the churches.</hi>&mdash;All down the Age the
Church has had this Message; all down the Age holy men
of God have sought to understand its mysteries; all down
the Age it has remained a closed book. But now the
Mystery of God is <emph>finished</emph>; and the object of keeping the
book closed is accomplished. God wished the world to
know when the time for the complete removal of error
and for the establishment of His Kingdom would come;
and so He enables the last members of His Church to
give the Message.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>I am the Root and the Offspring of David.</hi>&mdash;<q>According
to the flesh, our Lord Jesus was, through His mother, the
Son, the Branch, the Offshoot or Offspring of David. It was
by virtue of His sacrifice of His undefiled life that He
became the <q>Root,</q> origin, source of life, and development
of David.</q>&mdash;E. <hi rend='italic'>150</hi>, 136; Rev. 5:5.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the bright and morning Star.</hi>&mdash;<q>And I will give him
the Morning Star.</q> (Rev. 2:28.) Christ's gift of Himself
to the Bride is the greatest of all gifts.&mdash;Job. 38:7; Psa.
118:22-25.
</p>

<p>
22:17. <hi rend='sans'>And the Spirit and the Bride say, Come.</hi>&mdash;<q>The
Gospel Age makes ready the chaste Virgin, the faithful
Church, for the coming Bridegroom. And in the end of
the Age, when she is made <q>ready</q> (Rev. 19:7; 21:2, 9),
the Bridegroom comes; and they that are ready go in with
Him to the Marriage. The Second Adam and the Second
Eve become one, and then the glorious work of Restitution
begins. In the next Dispensation, the New Heaven and the
new earth, the Church will be no longer the espoused
Virgin, but the Bride.</q>&mdash;A. 98.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And let him that heareth say, Come. And let him that
is athirst come.</hi>&mdash;<q>Blessed are they that do hunger and
thirst after righteousness for they shall be filled.</q>&mdash;Matt.
5:6; Isa. 55:1.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[And] whosoever will, let him take of the Water of Life
freely.</hi>&mdash;<q>Now the prospective members of the Bride class
have the Lord's Spirit in them, <q>a well of water springing
up unto everlasting life.</q> (John 4:14.) By and by these
well-springs brought together in glory with the Lord shall
<pb n='338'/><anchor id='Pg338'/>
constitute the source of the great River of Life which shall
bless and heal all nations. By and by the prophecy will
be fulfilled: <q>He that believeth in Me, out of his belly shall
flow rivers of living water.</q></q>
</p>

<p>
22:18. <hi rend='sans'>[For] I testify unto every man that heareth the
words of the prophecy of this book.</hi>&mdash;To all who ever
understand it.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>If any man shall add unto these things.</hi>&mdash;As was done
in many instances during the Dark Ages, even in this very
verse.&mdash;Deut. 4:2; 12:32; Prov. 30:5, 6.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>God shall add unto him the plagues that are written
in this book.</hi>&mdash;His penalty will be, when he comes forth
from the tomb in the Times of Restitution, that he will
have to read the Seven Volumes of <hi rend='italic'>Scripture Studies</hi>, and
get the matter straightened out in his own mind.
</p>

<p>
22:19. <hi rend='sans'>And if any man shall take away from the words
of the book of this prophecy.</hi>&mdash;Shall seek to nullify or minimize
its teachings, now that the time has come for it to
be understood.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>God shall take away his part [out of the Book] FROM
THE TREE of Life.</hi>&mdash;He will not be a part of the life-giving
Tree described in Rev. 22:2; not a part of the Little Flock.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And [out of] the Holy City, [and from the things] which
are written in this book.</hi>&mdash;He will not be one of the Lord's
jewels, counted worthy of a place in the New Jerusalem.
</p>

<p>
22:20. <hi rend='sans'>He which testifieth these things TO BE saith,
surely I come quickly.</hi>&mdash;The <foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>apokalupsis</foreign> is at hand! See
Rev. 16:15.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>[Amen. Even so] come, Lord Jesus.</hi>&mdash;The union with
the Bridegroom draweth nigh.
</p>

<p>
22:21. <hi rend='sans'>The grace of [our] THE Lord Jesus Christ be
with [you all] THE SAINTS, Amen.</hi>&mdash;The first of the saints
to whom will be extended the unmerited favor of a raising
up out of death to perfection will be the Little Flock; the
next class of saints to be reached will be the Great Company;
next in order will come forth the Ancient Worthies;
and finally the millions and billions of mankind, until at
last Adam, himself, shall come forth from the prison-house
in which he has lain so long, and may, if he will,
receive again by the will of God, as a favor or grace at the
hands of Christ, the unspeakable boon of eternal life.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<quote rend='display'>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>The sweet persuasion of His voice</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Respects thy sanctity of will,</l>
<l>He giveth day; thou hast thy choice</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'><q rend='post'>To walk in darkness still.</q>&mdash;Whittier.</l>
</lg>

</quote>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='339'/><anchor id='Pg339'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Song Of Solomon</head>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Bridal Anthem</head>

<p>
1:1. <hi rend='sans'>The song of songs</hi>&mdash;The harmony of harmonies&mdash;the
assembling in one beautiful picture of many of the
most beautiful figures of the Divine Word.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which is Solomon's</hi>&mdash;Type of Christ in glory, as David
was a type of Christ in the flesh.
</p>

<p>
1:2. <hi rend='sans'>Let him kiss me</hi>&mdash;A form of salutation signifying
closest fellowship. <q>Greet all the brethren with an holy
kiss.</q> <q>Betrayest thou the Son of man with a kiss?</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>With the kisses</hi>&mdash;The oft repeated endearments.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of His Mouth</hi>&mdash;Of His Word, the Scriptures.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For Thy love</hi>&mdash;Thy caresses, the repeated assurances of
guidance, protection, companionship, love and care.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Is better than wine</hi>&mdash;Wine is a symbol of doctrine.
<q>They also have erred through wine.</q> <q>They are drunken,
but not with wine.</q> <q>All nations have drunk of the wine.</q>
<q>I will not henceforth drink of this fruit of the vine.</q> <q>Be
not drunk with wine.</q> Although a sound faith is essential,
yet of faith, hope and love, the greatest is love; therefore,
love is better than wine. The Lord's assurances of love are
even more precious to the Bride than the precious doctrines
so vital to her happiness.
</p>

<p>
1:3. <hi rend='sans'>Because of the savour</hi>&mdash;The sweet perfume.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of Thy good ointments</hi>&mdash;The Holy Spirit, the holy anointing
oil of the priesthood.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Thy name</hi>&mdash;Christ, which means <q>Anointed.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Is as ointment</hi>&mdash;The holy anointing oil, the Holy Spirit.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Poured forth</hi>&mdash;At His baptism upon the Head, at Pentecost
on the Body.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Therefore</hi>&mdash;Because of their admiration and appreciation
of Christ's Holy Spirit.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Do the virgins</hi>&mdash;The pure in heart.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Love Thee</hi>&mdash;Seek fellowship with Thee, aspire to learn of
Thee, to cultivate Thy graces, to be near Thee.
</p>

<p>
1:4. <hi rend='sans'>Draw me</hi>&mdash;<q>No man can come to Me except the
Father draw him.</q> <q>All Thine are Mine.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>We will run</hi>&mdash;Not sit in the seat of the scornful, nor
stand in the way of sinners, nor walk in the counsel of the
ungodly, but run with patience the race set before us.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>After Thee</hi>&mdash;The Forerunner. The First-born from the
dead. The first to pass over the narrow way. The Head,
<pb n='340'/><anchor id='Pg340'/>
that in all things He might have the preeminence. Not
after the flesh, but after the Spirit.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The King</hi>&mdash;The Lord Jesus, typified by Solomon. <q>So
shall the King greatly desire thy beauty.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Hath brought me</hi>&mdash;Even in the present life.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Into His chambers</hi>&mdash;Into the <q>Holy,</q> the spirit-begotten
condition, the first heavenly condition; made us to sit down
in heavenly places in Christ.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>We will be glad</hi>&mdash;<q>Be glad in the Lord, and rejoice, ye
righteous.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And rejoice in Thee</hi>&mdash;<q>And again I say, Rejoice.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>We will remember</hi>&mdash;Will meditate upon, think of.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Thy love</hi>&mdash;Thy caresses, assurances of guidance, protection,
companionship, love and care.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>More than wine.</hi>&mdash;More even than the doctrines.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The upright</hi>&mdash;Those without deceit, guileless, honest.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Love Thee</hi>&mdash;Seek fellowship with Thee, aspire to learn of
Thee, to cultivate Thy graces, to be near Thee.
</p>

<p>
1:5. <hi rend='sans'>I am black</hi>&mdash;The bride of Moses, Zipporah, type of
the Bride of Christ, was an Ethiopian woman&mdash;a Gentile.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>But comely</hi>&mdash;<q>The King's Daughter is all glorious within</q>;
her intentions are pure, spotless in God's sight.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>O ye daughters</hi>&mdash;Professed children.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of Jerusalem</hi>&mdash;Of the Kingdom of God. The true Church
instinctively recognizes that her detractors are to be found
among God's professed people.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>As the tents of Kedar</hi>&mdash;Kedar was one of the children of
Ishmael, and the name thus stands for the Ishmaelites, or
Bedouins. Their tents are their homes; and though made
of black goat's hair and outwardly stained they are often
luxurious in the interior, being hung with costly tapestries.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>As the curtains</hi>&mdash;Between the Holy and the Most Holy.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of Solomon</hi>&mdash;Of Solomon's Temple. These curtains, or
rather a similar curtain which hung in Herod's temple, and
which was rent in twain on the day of our Lord's death,
was most wonderful, being some thirty feet long, fifteen
feet wide and five inches thick.
</p>

<p>
1:6. <hi rend='sans'>Look not upon me</hi>&mdash;Look not <emph>so</emph> upon me (Leeser);
the Bride kindly expostulates with her critics.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Because I am black</hi>&mdash;Because I am somewhat black
(Leeser); the Bride does not deny her imperfections, but
is not disposed to admit that she is altogether worthless.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Because the Sun</hi>&mdash;The searching light of the true Gospel
which exposes every defect.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Hath looked upon me</hi>&mdash;Judgment must begin at the
House of God. The Bride's sins are open beforehand, known
to all men. God's Word exposes the weaknesses of almost
every noble character whose life is there recorded.
</p>

<pb n='341'/><anchor id='Pg341'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>My mother's children</hi>&mdash;Sitting and speaking against their
brother, their own mother's son.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Were angry with me</hi>&mdash;<q>Your brethren that hated you,
that cast you out for My name's sake,</q> etc. <q>The brother
shall betray the brother to death.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>They made me</hi>&mdash;Elected me, appointed me.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The keeper</hi>&mdash;Class-leader, Sunday-school teacher, etc.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the vineyards</hi>&mdash;Sunday-schools, Christian Endeavor
societies, Epworth Leagues, Young People's unions.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>But mine own vineyard</hi>&mdash;The cultivation of the fruits of
the Spirit.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Have I not kept</hi>&mdash;I have been too busy with <q>church
work,</q> to look after my own best spiritual interests.
</p>

<p>
1:7. <hi rend='sans'>Tell me</hi>&mdash;The Bride continues.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>O Thou</hi>&mdash;Christ.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Whom my soul loveth</hi>&mdash;Whom having not seen, we love.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Where Thou feedest</hi>&mdash;<q>Wheresoever the carcase is there
will the eagles be gathered together.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Where thou</hi>&mdash;The Good Shepherd.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Makest Thy flock</hi>&mdash;The Flock of God.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To rest</hi>&mdash;My people have forgotten their resting-place.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>At noon</hi>&mdash;Where the grass is long and sweet, and where
there are opportunities to draw specially near to the Shepherd.
<q>He maketh me to lie down in green pastures.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For why should I be</hi>&mdash;Why should I longer appear to
others to be.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>As one that turneth aside</hi>&mdash;As one that goeth astray.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>By the flocks</hi>&mdash;Not <emph>in</emph> them; for I never was in any other
intentionally. I thought these other flocks <emph>were</emph> yours.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of Thy companions</hi>&mdash;Other great teachers; heads of other
churches; Antichrist systems.
</p>

<p>
1:8. <hi rend='sans'>If thou know not</hi>&mdash;The Heavenly One replies.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>O thou fairest</hi>&mdash;The Lord does not taunt her with her
self-confessed stains.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Among women</hi>&mdash;Churches, true and false.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Go thy way forth</hi>&mdash;There is something for you to do.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>By the footsteps</hi>&mdash;He goeth before them, and the sheep
follow Him.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the flock</hi>&mdash;Look about you; and when you see those
whose lives indicate that they are true sheep, and when
they urge you <q>Come and see,</q> follow Nathaniel's example.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And feed thy kids</hi>&mdash;Inquiring ones, newly interested, especially
if they manifest any goat-like tendencies.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Beside the shepherds' tents</hi>&mdash;Take them to the elders' or
deacons' homes for further instruction in the right ways of
the Lord; or, apply the same principle by bringing the
<hi rend='italic'>Scripture Studies</hi> to their attention, thus introducing them
to the teacher who has answered all our hard questions.
</p>

<pb n='342'/><anchor id='Pg342'/>

<p>
1:9. <hi rend='sans'>I have compared thee</hi>&mdash;The Lord continues.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>O My Love</hi>&mdash;<q>Love one another as I have loved you.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To a company</hi>&mdash;144,000.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of horses</hi>&mdash;Fond of their Master, quick to do His bidding,
easily guided, quiet, faithful, temperate, long-suffering.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>In Pharaoh's chariots</hi>&mdash;The best in the world.
</p>

<p>
1:10. <hi rend='sans'>Thy cheeks are comely</hi>&mdash;The Lord continues to
shower compliments upon His Espoused.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>With rows of jewels</hi>&mdash;Jewels of Divine Truth; the ornaments
of a meek and quiet spirit.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Thy neck</hi>&mdash;The yoke-bearing member. <q>Take My yoke
upon you</q>; a yoke is built for two&mdash;Jesus and one other.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>With chains of gold.</hi>&mdash;The Divine nature. Each act of
loyal burden-bearing becomes a link in the golden chain.
</p>

<p>
1:11. <hi rend='sans'>We</hi>&mdash;My Father and I.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Will make thee borders</hi>&mdash;<q>A House not made with hands
eternal in the Heavens.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of gold</hi>&mdash;The Divine nature.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>With studs of silver</hi>&mdash;The House will be truly yours;
that which is your own.
</p>

<p>
1:12. <hi rend='sans'>While the King</hi>&mdash;The Bride thus speaks of her
Lord.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Sitteth at His table</hi>&mdash;Breaking the Bread of Life to His
Household.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>My spikenard</hi>&mdash;Devotion, as Illustrated by Mary's alabaster
box.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Sendeth forth the smell thereof</hi>&mdash;<q>Did not our hearts
burn within us while He talked with us by the way, and
while He opened to us the Scriptures?</q> At such times the
fires of Heavenly love burn fiercest.
</p>

<p>
1:13. <hi rend='sans'>A bundle of myrrh</hi>&mdash;Wisdom. <q>In Him are hid
all the treasures of wisdom and of knowledge.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Is my well-beloved</hi>&mdash;Christ.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Unto me</hi>&mdash;<q>Who of God is made unto us Wisdom.</q> <q>We
have the mind of Christ.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>He shall lie all night</hi>&mdash;During this dark time while evil
is permitted.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Betwixt my breasts</hi>&mdash;I will take the Lord into my bosom,
<q>More dear, more intimately nigh than e'en the sweetest
earthly tie.</q>
</p>

<p>
1:14. <hi rend='sans'>My Beloved</hi>&mdash;Christ, on the other side of the veil.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Is unto me</hi>&mdash;The Bride, still toiling on this side of the
veil.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>As a cluster of camphire</hi>&mdash;A cooling, fragrant shade, a
refuge from the fierce heat; <q>as the shadow of a great rock
in a weary land.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>In the vineyards of Engedi</hi>&mdash;Located on the shore of the
Dead Sea, in one of the hottest of climates.
</p>

<pb n='343'/><anchor id='Pg343'/>

<p>
1:15. <hi rend='sans'>Behold thou art fair.</hi>&mdash;The Bridegroom speaks
again.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>My love</hi>&mdash;My Bride to be.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Behold thou art fair</hi>&mdash;Beautiful of heart.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Thou hast dove's eyes</hi>&mdash;Heavenly wisdom&mdash;the wisdom
of the Holy Spirit.
</p>

<p>
1:16. <hi rend='sans'>Behold Thou art fair</hi>&mdash;<q>Fairer than the children of
men.</q> The Bride returns the compliment.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>My Beloved</hi>&mdash;<q>Greater love hath no man than this
that a man lay down his life for his friends.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Yea pleasant</hi>&mdash;The disciplines are as nothing compared
to the joy of your fellowship.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Also, our bed</hi>&mdash;The place of our rest; <q>let the saints be
joyful in glory, let them sing aloud upon their beds.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Is green</hi>&mdash;Our rest will be everlasting. <q>They rest from
their labors.</q>
</p>

<p>
1:17. <hi rend='sans'>The beams of our house</hi>&mdash;The covering over us;
<q>the Head of Christ is God.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Are cedar</hi>&mdash;Immortal.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And our rafters</hi>&mdash;Wainscoting; the environment on all
sides.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of fir</hi>&mdash;Everlasting. Where changes never come.
</p>

<p>
2:1. <hi rend='sans'>I am the rose</hi>&mdash;Glorious, beautiful, without a peer.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of Sharon</hi>&mdash;(The Plain). Not seeking exaltation.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The lily</hi>&mdash;Pure, fragrant, exquisite.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the valleys</hi>&mdash;Meek and lowly of heart.
</p>

<p>
2:2. <hi rend='sans'>As the lily</hi>&mdash;Pure, humble, defenseless; so the
Heavenly One responds.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Among thorns</hi>&mdash;Which scratch, tear and wound.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>So is My love</hi>&mdash;<q>Continue ye in my love.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Among the daughters</hi>&mdash;Nominal church organizations.
</p>

<p>
2:3. <hi rend='sans'>As the apple tree</hi>&mdash;The Bride thus refers to Christ.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Among the trees</hi>&mdash;With a fruitage greater in variety,
color, flavor, quantity and lasting quality.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the wood</hi>&mdash;Which run largely to leaves, professions.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>So is my Beloved</hi>&mdash;<q>We love Him because He first loved
us.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Among the sons</hi>&mdash;The other sons of God with whom we
are acquainted.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>I sat down</hi>&mdash;<q>Come ye yourselves apart, and rest awhile.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Under His shadow</hi>&mdash;His protecting love and care.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And His fruit</hi>&mdash;His perfect fruitage of love.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Was sweet to my taste.</hi>&mdash;<q>Oh, taste and see that the
Lord is good!</q>
</p>

<p>
2:4. <hi rend='sans'>He brought me</hi>&mdash;Guided me by His Word and providences.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To the banqueting house</hi>&mdash;To sup with Him and He with
me.
</p>

<pb n='344'/><anchor id='Pg344'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And His banner</hi>&mdash;The banner under which He fought
the good fight of faith.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Over me</hi>&mdash;And under which I also am enlisted.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Was love</hi>&mdash;Love of the highest order.
</p>

<p>
2:5. <hi rend='sans'>Stay me</hi>&mdash;Nerve me for the war.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>With flagons</hi>&mdash;The pure doctrines of the Kingdom.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Comfort me</hi>&mdash;Strengthen me for the conflict.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>With apples</hi>&mdash;Spiritual food; bread from Heaven.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For I am sick of love</hi>&mdash;Am lovesick, over-sentimental,
dreamy, not sufficiently awake to the fact that true love
includes service and sacrifice.
</p>

<p>
2:6. <hi rend='sans'>His left hand</hi>&mdash;His power as illustrated in the guidance
of His people into all necessary Truth.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Is under my head</hi>&mdash;Directing my mental faculties.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And His right hand</hi>&mdash;His power as illustrated in overruling
all things that would harm me.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Doth embrace me</hi>&mdash;<q>Secure in His tender embrace, I've
nothing to doubt or to fear.</q>
</p>

<p>
2:7. <hi rend='sans'>I charge you</hi>&mdash;I must give you this message.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>O ye daughters</hi>&mdash;Professed children; nominal Spiritual
Israel.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of Jerusalem</hi>&mdash;The Kingdom of God.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>By the roes</hi>&mdash;Which you regard as the loveliest things
of earth, as illustrated by the statuary on your estates.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And by the hinds</hi>&mdash;The things which you regard as most
full of grace; therefore typical of your churches, colleges,
hospitals, libraries and charitable institutions.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the field</hi>&mdash;The world, the present order of things.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That ye stir not up</hi>&mdash;Seek not to arouse.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Nor awake my love</hi>&mdash;To take charge of earth's affairs.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Till He please.</hi>&mdash;For when He does stand up to assume
control, <q>there will be a Time of Trouble, such as never
was,</q> in which all these beautiful things upon which you
have set your heart will be obliterated.
</p>

<p>
2:8. <hi rend='sans'>The voice of my Beloved</hi>&mdash;The Church suddenly recognizes
the joyful sound, betokening the Second Presence
of her Lord.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Behold He cometh</hi>&mdash;<q>At midnight there was a cry raised.
Behold, He cometh!</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Leaping upon</hi>&mdash;Dismembering or changing the form of.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The mountains</hi>&mdash;The autocratic governments of Spain,
Portugal, Sweden, Russia, Turkey, Persia and China.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Skipping upon</hi>&mdash;Shattering old customs and old political
parties, and placing the people more in the ascendency.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The hills</hi>&mdash;The less autocratic governments of the United
States, Mexico, Great Britain, France, etc. <q>The hills
melt like wax at the presence of the Lord.</q>
</p>

<p>
2:9. <hi rend='sans'>My Beloved is like</hi>&mdash;In swiftness of movement.
</p>

<pb n='345'/><anchor id='Pg345'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>A roe or a young hart</hi>&mdash;Swiftly leaping from mountain to
mountain; preparing the world for His coming Reign.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Behold He standeth</hi>&mdash;<q>There standeth One among you
whom ye know not.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Behind our wall.</hi>&mdash;The wall of our earthly house, unseen
by the eye of flesh.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>He looketh forth</hi>&mdash;He looketh in.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>At the windows</hi>&mdash;The windows of the soul, the eyes of
the understanding.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Showing Himself</hi>&mdash;Revealing the fact of His Second Presence.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Through the lattice</hi>&mdash;Parallels and cross references of
Holy Writ.
</p>

<p>
2:10. <hi rend='sans'>My Beloved spake</hi>&mdash;<q>Thine ears shall hear a voice
behind thee.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And said unto me</hi>&mdash;Through the words of the Prophets
and the Apostles.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Rise up, My love</hi>&mdash;<q>Awake, awake! put on thy strength.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>My fair one</hi>&mdash;<q>Put on thy beautiful garments.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And come away</hi>&mdash;From earthly to Heavenly conditions.
</p>

<p>
2:11. <hi rend='sans'>For lo, the winter</hi>&mdash;The time of the burning of the
tares; <q>pray ye that your flight be not in the winter.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Is past</hi>&mdash;Will shortly be past.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The rain</hi>&mdash;The deluge of Truth.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Is over and gone.</hi>&mdash;The Harvest work is all accomplished:
will have been finished at the time here indicated.
</p>

<p>
2:12. <hi rend='sans'>The flowers</hi>&mdash;Promise of a new fruitage.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Appear on the earth</hi>&mdash;Among the restitution class.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The time of the singing</hi>&mdash;The harmonious mating.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of birds is come</hi>&mdash;Of Heaven-sent prophecies and their
fulfilments. <q>Search ye out and see; not one of these shall
want her mate</q>; i. e., every word of every prophecy will
be fulfilled.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The voice of the turtle</hi>&mdash;The turtle-dove; <q>the congregation
of Thy poor</q> is thus described by the Psalmist.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Is heard in our land</hi>&mdash;The poor begin to take hope; the
harbingers of the New Era are about us on every hand.
</p>

<p>
2:13. <hi rend='sans'>The fig tree</hi>&mdash;The Jewish nation.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Putteth forth</hi>&mdash;<q>Behold the fig tree, and all the trees;
when they now shoot forth ... know ye that the
Kingdom of God is nigh.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Her green figs</hi>&mdash;Plans for re-establishment in Palestine.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the vines</hi>&mdash;Of the Father's right hand planting.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>With the tender grape</hi>&mdash;Bearing the precious fruitage of
love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith,
meekness, self-control.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Give a good smell</hi>&mdash;Yield a sweet perfume to the husbandman.
<q>My Father is the Husbandman.</q>
</p>

<pb n='346'/><anchor id='Pg346'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Arise My Love</hi>&mdash;<q>Awake, thou that sleepest, and arise
from the dead.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>My fair one</hi>&mdash;The queen in gold of Ophir, Daughter of
the Great King.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And come away.</hi>&mdash;<q>Forget also thine own people and thy
father's house.</q>
</p>

<p>
2:14. <hi rend='sans'>O my Dove</hi>&mdash;The Bride addresses her unseen
Lord.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That art in</hi>&mdash;Directly <emph>in</emph>, fully <emph>in</emph>, guiding, controlling.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The clefts</hi>&mdash;The apparent fractures or injuries.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the rock</hi>&mdash;The Kingdom; the Stone cut out without
hands.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>In the secret places</hi>&mdash;The dark corners of life's experiences,
where we halt trembling and afraid.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the stairs</hi>&mdash;The stepping stones by which we ascend
to the Heavenly City.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Let me see Thy countenance</hi>&mdash;<q>I shall be satisfied when
I awake in Thy likeness.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Let me hear Thy voice</hi>&mdash;<q>The sheep follow Him; for
they know His voice.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For sweet is Thy voice</hi>&mdash;<q>Grace is poured into Thy lips.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And Thy countenance is comely</hi>&mdash;<q>I will that they may
be with Me where I am, that they may behold My glory.</q>
</p>

<p>
2:15. <hi rend='sans'>Take us the foxes</hi>&mdash;Take away from us the sly
faults, originating in the deceitful mind of the flesh.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The little foxes</hi>&mdash;Secret beginnings of sin in the mind.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That spoil the vines</hi>&mdash;That prevent us from yielding the
fruitage of love so precious in Thy sight.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For our vines</hi>&mdash;<q>I am the Vine; ye are the branches.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Have tender grapes</hi>&mdash;Have begun a fruitage, which is
ripening beautifully in the Father's sight.
</p>

<p>
2:16. <hi rend='sans'>My Beloved is mine</hi>&mdash;<q>The Head can not say to
the feet, I have no need of you.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And I am His</hi>&mdash;<q>If the foot shall say, Because I am not
the hand, I am not of the body, is it not of the body?</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>He feedeth</hi>&mdash;Bestows His spiritual favors upon.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The lilies</hi>&mdash;<q>The meek will He guide in judgment; the
meek will He teach His way.</q>
</p>

<p>
2:17. <hi rend='sans'>Until the day break</hi>&mdash;Until the Messianic Morning
has fully dawned.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the shadows</hi>&mdash;Of the reign of sin and death.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Flee away</hi>&mdash;Depart forever.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Turn my Beloved</hi>&mdash;Continue to hide Thyself from earthly
eyes.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And be Thou like</hi>&mdash;In Thy swiftness of movement.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>A roe or a young hart</hi>&mdash;Leaping from mountain to mountain&mdash;kingdom
to kingdom.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Upon the mountains</hi>&mdash;Gentile dominions.
</p>

<pb n='347'/><anchor id='Pg347'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of Bether</hi>&mdash;Of divisions, which separate us from Thee
and separate Thee from Thy long-promised Reign.
</p>

<p>
3:1. <hi rend='sans'>By night</hi>&mdash;While I was still in the dark in regard
to God's great Plan.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>On my bed</hi>&mdash;My creed bed, the one from which I have
now been taken, but in which many others are still left.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>I sought Him</hi>&mdash;Sought intimate fellowship with Him.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Whom my soul loveth</hi>&mdash;<q>He that loveth father or mother
... son or daughter more than Me is not worthy of Me.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>I sought Him</hi>&mdash;Christ, the Heavenly Bridegroom.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>But I found Him not</hi>&mdash;Certainly not; how absurd of me
to expect to greet the Bridegroom when I was in bed,
sound asleep!
</p>

<p>
3:2. <hi rend='sans'>I will rise now</hi>&mdash;This creed bed is uncomfortable; it
is <q>shorter than that a man can stretch himself on it.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And go about the city</hi>&mdash;Interest myself in the activities
of Christendom.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>In the streets</hi>&mdash;Enter into the affairs of its governments.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And in the broad ways</hi>&mdash;Plunge into its pleasures&mdash;<q>gay
white ways,</q> etc.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>I will seek Him</hi>&mdash;Try to find the place of rest.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Whom my soul loveth</hi>&mdash;For which my soul longs. <q>We
who have believed do enter into rest.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>I sought Him</hi>&mdash;Sought rest of heart in all these ways.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>But I found Him not</hi>&mdash;<q>All that my soul has tried left
but an aching void.</q>
</p>

<p>
3:3. <hi rend='sans'>The watchmen</hi>&mdash;Of nominal Zion; the clergy.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That go about the city</hi>&mdash;Christendom, Babylon.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Found me</hi>&mdash;Drew me under their influence.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To whom I said</hi>&mdash;Having become deeply interested in the
subject of the Lord's promised Return.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Saw ye Him</hi>&mdash;Have you discerned the fact of the Bridegroom's
Presence?
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Whom my soul loveth</hi>&mdash;There was no reply, for the
reason that <q>His watchmen are blind; they are all ignorant:
they are all dumb dogs; they cannot bark.</q>
</p>

<p>
3:4. <hi rend='sans'>It was but a little</hi>&mdash;<q>He is not far from us.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That I passed from them</hi>&mdash;Became unbound, unfettered.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>But I found Him</hi>&mdash;Was made acquainted with the proofs
of the Parousia.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Whom my soul loveth</hi>&mdash;We ought to live for Him who
died for us.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>I held Him</hi>&mdash;<q>Hold that fast which thou hast, that no
man take thy crown.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And would not let Him go</hi>&mdash;<q>I will not let Thee go,
except Thou bless me.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Till I had brought Him</hi>&mdash;Till I had accompanied Him.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Into my mother's house</hi>&mdash;The antitypical Sarah tent.
</p>

<pb n='348'/><anchor id='Pg348'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And into the chamber</hi>&mdash;Heaven itself.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of her that conceived me</hi>&mdash;The Sarah Covenant; the
Oath-bound Covenant.
</p>

<p>
3:5. <hi rend='sans'>I charge you</hi>&mdash;I must give you this message.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>O ye daughters</hi>&mdash;Professed children.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of Jerusalem</hi>&mdash;The Kingdom of God.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>By the roes</hi>&mdash;Which you regard as the loveliest things
of earth, as illustrated by the statuary on your estates.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And by the hinds</hi>&mdash;The things which you regard as most
full of grace; therefore typical of your churches, colleges,
hospitals, libraries and charitable institutions.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the field</hi>&mdash;The world, the present order of things.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That ye stir not up</hi>&mdash;Seek not to arouse.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Nor awake my Love</hi>&mdash;To take charge of earth's affairs.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Till He please</hi>&mdash;For when He does stand up to assume
control, <q>there will be a Time of Trouble such as never
was,</q> in which all these beautiful things upon which
you have set your heart will be obliterated.
</p>

<p>
3:6. <hi rend='sans'>Who is this that cometh</hi>&mdash;The Lord's professed
people thus speak of the evidences of the Lord's Second
Presence.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Out of the wilderness</hi>&mdash;The Time of Trouble having come,
they recognize that the long-promised Second Coming of
the Lord is an accomplished fact.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Like pillars of smoke</hi>&mdash;Terrible in majesty, definite, personal,
intangible. <q>I will show wonders in the heavens
and in the earth, blood and fire and pillars of smoke.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Perfumed with myrrh</hi>&mdash;Anointed with Wisdom.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And frankincense</hi>&mdash;Praise to Jehovah.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>With all powders</hi>&mdash;All ingredients of the holy anointing
oil, type of the Holy Spirit.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the merchant</hi>&mdash;The apothecary; the Heavenly Father.
<q>God gave not the Spirit by measure unto Him.</q>
</p>

<p>
3:7. <hi rend='sans'>Behold His bed</hi>&mdash;The place of His ultimate rest
and ours.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which is Solomon's</hi>&mdash;Christ's, in glory.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Threescore valiant men</hi>&mdash;The sixty centuries during
which evil has been permitted.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Are about it</hi>&mdash;Standing between the people of God and
the rest which He has promised.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the valiant</hi>&mdash;Invincible, immovable.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of Israel</hi>&mdash;Of the people of God. All the centuries belong
to God; they are His servants, working out His sovereign
will.
</p>

<p>
3:8. <hi rend='sans'>They all hold swords</hi>&mdash;Since the slaughter of Abel,
all the centuries have been filled with bloodshed.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Being expert in war</hi>&mdash;War has prevailed throughout the
earth during all that time.
</p>

<pb n='349'/><anchor id='Pg349'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Every man hath his sword</hi>&mdash;Every century has its implements
of war.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Upon his thigh</hi>&mdash;Ready for use upon the slightest provocation.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Because of fear</hi>&mdash;The present world-war is due to mutual
fear and distrust.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>In the night</hi>&mdash;The time of the permission of evil; the
time for dark motives and dark deeds.
</p>

<p>
3:9. <hi rend='sans'>King Solomon</hi>&mdash;Christ, in glory.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Made Himself a chariot</hi>&mdash;<foreign rend='italic'>Appiryon</foreign>, palanquin; a magnificent
vehicle provided for a queen's reception and her
entrance into the royal city, and in which the King goes
forth to meet her; typified by the chariot of fire which
bore Elijah away from earthly scenes: the magnificent
spectacle with which this Age will end.&mdash;See page <ref target='Pg063'>63</ref>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the wood of Lebanon</hi>&mdash;The saints. The typical temple
was built, in part, of cedar and fir timber cut from
Mt. Lebanon.
</p>

<p>
3:10. <hi rend='sans'>He made the pillars thereof</hi>&mdash;The corner posts,
just outside the place of greatest honor.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of silver</hi>&mdash;The Great Company.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The bottom thereof</hi>&mdash;The canopy overhead; <q>that in all
things He might have the preeminence.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of gold</hi>&mdash;The Divine nature.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The covering thereof</hi>&mdash;The seat; the Throne of the Royal
Priesthood.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of purple</hi>&mdash;Royalty.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The midst thereof</hi>&mdash;The heart of it.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Being paved with love</hi>&mdash;Love of the highest order&mdash;love
for enemies.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For the daughters</hi>&mdash;The professed children; nominal
Spiritual Israel.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of Jerusalem</hi>&mdash;The Kingdom of God.
</p>

<p>
3:11. <hi rend='sans'>Go forth</hi>&mdash;<q>Come out of her,</q> out of Babylon.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>O ye daughters of Zion</hi>&mdash;My people; God's people.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And behold King Solomon</hi>&mdash;Get clear views of Christ.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>With the crown</hi>&mdash;The Crown of Life; the Divine nature.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Wherewith His mother</hi>&mdash;The Sarah Covenant.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Crowned Him</hi>&mdash;With glory and honor.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>In the day</hi>&mdash;Pentecost.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of His espousals</hi>&mdash;When the antitypical Eliezer was received
by the antitypical Rebecca.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And in the day</hi>&mdash;Now at hand, praise the Lord!
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the gladness of His heart</hi>&mdash;When the marriage of the
Lamb takes place. <q>Blessed is he that is called to the
marriage supper of the Lamb.</q>
</p>

<p>
4:1. <hi rend='sans'>Behold thou art fair</hi>&mdash;The Lord addresses His Bride
anew.
</p>

<pb n='350'/><anchor id='Pg350'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>My love</hi>&mdash;<q>Greater love hath no man than this, that a
man lay down his life for his friend.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Behold thou art fair</hi>&mdash;<q>So shall the King greatly desire
thy beauty.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Thou hast dove's eyes</hi>&mdash;The Heavenly wisdom.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Thy hair</hi>&mdash;Woman's hair was given her for a covering,
and it is her glory. The righteousness of Christ is the
Bride's covering, and it is her glory.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Is as a flock of goats</hi>&mdash;Thick, luxuriant.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That appear from Mt. Gilead</hi>&mdash;The flocks of goats on Mt.
Gilead are of unusual size to this day.
</p>

<p>
4:2. <hi rend='sans'>Thy teeth</hi>&mdash;Masticators, grinders, assimilators of
spiritual food.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Are like a flock</hi>&mdash;In glistening array.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That are even shorn</hi>&mdash;When the lips are parted.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which come up from the washing</hi>&mdash;Cleansing by salivation.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Whereof every one bear twine</hi>&mdash;Whereof they come forth
in pairs.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And none is barren</hi>&mdash;None is without its mate.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Among them</hi>&mdash;The teeth are perfect in form and number,
illustrating the Bride's ability to feed upon the strong
meat which <q>belongeth to them that are of full age.</q>
</p>

<p>
4:3. <hi rend='sans'>Thy lips</hi>&mdash;<q>O Lord open Thou my lips!</q> <q>My
mouth shall praise Thee with joyful lips.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Are like a thread of scarlet</hi>&mdash;As the scarlet thread of
redemption runs through the Divine Word, so it is with
you, and on your lips&mdash;the all-absorbing theme of life.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And thy speech is comely</hi>&mdash;<q>My speech shall distil as the
dew.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Thy temples are like</hi>&mdash;Thy mind, the mind of the New
Creature, may be properly compared to.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>A piece of pomegranate</hi>&mdash;The pomegranate curiously combines
the flavors of all fruits. It thus well illustrates the
New Mind, which, under the influence of the Holy Spirit,
brings to perfection the fruitage of love, the sum of all
the Christian graces.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Within thy locks</hi>&mdash;Behind thy veil; concealed by the veil
of the flesh.
</p>

<p>
4:4. <hi rend='sans'>Thy neck</hi>&mdash;Willingness to bear burdens.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Is like the tower of David</hi>&mdash;David was a type of the
Church militant.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Builded for an armory</hi>&mdash;Designed to accommodate a
great number.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Whereon there hang a thousand</hi>&mdash;<q>One shall chase a
thousand.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Bucklers of shields of mighty men</hi>&mdash;<q>I can do all things
through Christ, which strengtheneth me.</q>
</p>

<pb n='351'/><anchor id='Pg351'/>

<p>
4:5. <hi rend='sans'>Thy two breasts</hi>&mdash;<q>The breasts of her consolations,
whereof ye may suck and be satisfied, milk out and be
delighted.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Are like two young roes</hi>&mdash;The Scriptures, the Word of
God, quick and powerful.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That are twins</hi>&mdash;The Old and New Testament Scriptures
are identical in origin, spirit and purpose.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which feed among the lilies</hi>&mdash;<q>The meek will He guide
in judgment; the meek will He teach His way.</q>
</p>

<p>
4:6. <hi rend='sans'>Until the Day</hi>&mdash;The Millennial Day. The Bride is
the speaker.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Break</hi>&mdash;Has fully dawned.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the shadows</hi>&mdash;Of the Valley of the Shadow of Death
in which I now walk.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Flee away</hi>&mdash;Are gone.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>I will get me</hi>&mdash;In spirit.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To the mountain of myrrh</hi>&mdash;The Kingdom of Wisdom.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And to the hill of frankincense</hi>&mdash;Praise, heart adoration.
</p>

<p>
4:7. <hi rend='sans'>Thou art all fair</hi>&mdash;Blameless, faultless. The Lord
responds.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>My love</hi>&mdash;His love is commended to us in that <q>while
we were yet sinners Christ died for the ungodly.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>There is no spot</hi>&mdash;You have kept your garments unspotted
from the world.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>In thee</hi>&mdash;<q>If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just
to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us.</q>
</p>

<p>
4:8. <hi rend='sans'>Come with Me</hi>&mdash;To our Heavenly inheritance.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>From Lebanon</hi>&mdash;From your present unfinished condition.
The typical temple was built, in part, of cedar and fir
timbers from Lebanon; but they had to be hewn and finished
before they could be used.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>My spouse</hi>&mdash;My espoused Bride.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>With Me from Lebanon</hi>&mdash;You are but following in the
path I trod.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Look from the top of Amana</hi>&mdash;The view from this peak
is said to be indescribably grand. Look away to Heaven.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>From the top of Shenir</hi>&mdash;(Peak or pointed.) Look beyond
the sharp experiences of the present.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And Hermon</hi>&mdash;(Rugged or abrupt.) Look beyond the
unkind words and deeds you now encounter.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>From the lions' dens</hi>&mdash;You are now in the lions' dens,
but look beyond them. Satan goes about as a roaring lion;
but no lion shall be there.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>From the mountains</hi>&mdash;Kingdoms of this world. Look beyond
them.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the leopards</hi>&mdash;Papacy and those of her spirit. <q>And
the beast which I saw was like unto a leopard.</q>
</p>

<p>
4:9. <hi rend='sans'>Thou hast ravished My heart</hi>&mdash;Taken it away.
</p>

<pb n='352'/><anchor id='Pg352'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>My sister, My spouse</hi>&mdash;The Bride of Christ is His sister.
His Father is their Father. His mother, the Sarah covenant,
is their mother. <q>We, brethren, as Isaac was, are
the children of the Promise.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>With one of thine eyes</hi>&mdash;With thy singleness of vision.
<q>If thine eye be single, thy whole body shall be light.</q>&mdash;Matt.
6:22.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>With one chain of thy neck</hi>&mdash;With thy one bond of servitude;
consecration to the service of the Great King.
</p>

<p>
4:10. <hi rend='sans'>How fair is thy love</hi>&mdash;How various and beautiful
are its forms of expression.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>My sister, My spouse</hi>&mdash;My Father's Daughter, My espoused
Bride.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>How much better is thy love</hi>&mdash;The ways in which you
show your devotion to me.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Than wine</hi>&mdash;Than thy doctrines, some of which, in the
past, have been badly mixed.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the smell</hi>&mdash;The sweet fragrance.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of thine ointments</hi>&mdash;The anointing oil; the Holy Spirit.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Than all spices</hi>&mdash;Than all other virtues.
</p>

<p>
4:11. <hi rend='sans'>Thy lips, O My spouse</hi>&mdash;My beloved Bride to be.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Drop as the honeycomb</hi>&mdash;Distil a dropping of pure honey;
sweet and helpful words.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the smell</hi>&mdash;The sweet perfume.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of thy garments</hi>&mdash;The robe of Christ's righteousness.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Is like the smell</hi>&mdash;The life-giving odors.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of Lebanon</hi>&mdash;The cedar and fir trees of Lebanon.
</p>

<p>
4:12. <hi rend='sans'>A garden enclosed</hi>&mdash;A heart-garden, shut out of
sight of all but its owners.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Is My sister, My spouse</hi>&mdash;My Father's daughter, My espoused
Bride.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>A spring shut up</hi>&mdash;<q>It shall be in you a well of water
springing up unto everlasting life.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>A fountain sealed</hi>&mdash;Sealed with the King's own signet,
until the time comes that all the well springs are brought
together in the first resurrection, to constitute the fountain
from which will flow the River of the Water of Life.
</p>

<p>
4:13. <hi rend='sans'>Thy plants are</hi>&mdash;The plants in your heart-garden
are illustrated by.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>An orchard of pomegranates</hi>&mdash;The pomegranate curiously
combines the flavors of all fruits and thus well represents
love, the sum of all the Christian graces.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>With pleasant fruits</hi>&mdash;Pleasing characteristics.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Camphire</hi>&mdash;Rest, trust, confidence.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>With spikenard</hi>&mdash;Fragrant devotion, as illustrated by
Mary's alabaster box.
</p>

<p>
4:14. <hi rend='sans'>Spikenard and saffron</hi>&mdash;Fragrant devotion and
long-suffering.
</p>

<pb n='353'/><anchor id='Pg353'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Calamus and cinnamon</hi>&mdash;Knowledge and understanding.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>With all trees of frankincense</hi>&mdash;Praise, heart adoration.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Myrrh and aloes</hi>&mdash;Wisdom and patience.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>With all chief spices</hi>&mdash;All the remaining elements of
Christian character.
</p>

<p>
4:15. <hi rend='sans'>A fountain</hi>&mdash;In the midst.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of gardens</hi>&mdash;Beautiful, clear, sparkling, life-giving.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>A well of living waters</hi>&mdash;Invigorating the whole world in
the New Age. <q>The water that I shall give him shall be
in him a well of water springing up unto everlasting life.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And streams from Lebanon</hi>&mdash;Pure, refreshing.
</p>

<p>
4:16. <hi rend='sans'>Awake O North wind</hi>&mdash;Storms of adversity. The
Bride speaks.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And come thou South</hi>&mdash;Balmy breezes. <q>Some days are
bright and sweet with praise, some with accepted pain.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Blow upon my garden</hi>&mdash;My heart-garden, in which I seek
to develop the fruits most pleasing to my Lord.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That the spices thereof</hi>&mdash;The aroma of good deeds, kind
words and noble thoughts.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>May flow out</hi>&mdash;Manifest itself to the Lord and to others.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Let my Beloved</hi>&mdash;Bridegroom, Christ.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Come into His garden</hi>&mdash;Come into my heart.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And eat</hi>&mdash;Appropriate to His use and pleasure.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>His pleasant fruits</hi>&mdash;The fruits of love, which He has
cultivated within me.
</p>

<p>
5:1. <hi rend='sans'>I am come</hi>&mdash;The Lord responds.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Into My garden</hi>&mdash;I have accepted your invitation to come
in and make My abode with you.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>My sister, My spouse</hi>&mdash;My Father's Daughter, My espoused
Bride.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>I have gathered My myrrh</hi>&mdash;Wisdom; generally the result
of bitter experience. Myrrh means bitter.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>With My spice</hi>&mdash;The fragrant and sweet ingredients of
the Holy Spirit.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>I have eaten</hi>&mdash;Accepted, appropriated, consumed.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>My honeycomb</hi>&mdash;The sacrificers themselves.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>With My honey</hi>&mdash;With the sacrifices of praise which
they offered.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>I have drunk My wine</hi>&mdash;Taken note of the doctrines you
teach.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>With My milk</hi>&mdash;Noticed also the manner and spirit with
which you present the milk of the Word to those not so
far advanced.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Eat, O friends</hi>&mdash;The Lord addresses the needy world.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Drink, yea, drink abundantly, O beloved</hi>&mdash;<q>He, every one
that thirsteth, come ye to the waters, and he that hath no
money; come ye, buy and eat; yea, come, buy wine and
milk without money and without price.</q>
</p>

<pb n='354'/><anchor id='Pg354'/>

<p>
5:2. <hi rend='sans'>I sleep</hi>&mdash;<q>While the Bridegroom tarried, they all
slumbered and slept.</q> The Foolish Virgin class is here
represented as speaking.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>But my heart waketh</hi>&mdash;At heart the Foolish Virgins are
loyal to the Lord.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>It is the voice of my Beloved</hi>&mdash;She recognizes the evidences
of the Lord's Second Advent.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That knocketh</hi>&mdash;<q>Behold, I stand at the door and knock.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Saying Open to me</hi>&mdash;<q>If any man hear My voice and
open the door, I will come in to him.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>My sister, My love</hi>&mdash;The Foolish Virgins are children of
the same Father, and are also born of the Sarah Covenant,
but the Lord does not address them as His spouse.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>My dove, My undefiled</hi>&mdash;The Great Company class are
pure in their hearts intentions.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For My head</hi>&mdash;<q>As one who has vowed a vow of a
Nazarite to separate himself unto Jehovah.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Is filled with dew</hi>&mdash;Freshness, vigor. <q>Thou hast the
dew of Thy youth.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And My locks</hi>&mdash;<q>All the days of his separation there
shall no razor come upon his head. Till the days be fulfilled
in the which he separateth himself unto Jehovah, he
shall be holy, and shall let the locks of the hair of his
head grow.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>With the drops</hi>&mdash;Experiences.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the night</hi>&mdash;My consecration to Jehovah has been
steadfast throughout the world's dark night of sin.
</p>

<p>
5:3. <hi rend='sans'>I have put off</hi>&mdash;Temporarily laid aside. The Foolish
Virgins reply.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>My coat</hi>&mdash;The wedding robe which You provided.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>How shall I</hi>&mdash;How can I see to.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Put it on</hi>&mdash;I am in the midst of the dark night of the
Time of Trouble.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>I have washed my feet</hi>&mdash;I am a church member, in good
and regular standing.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>How shall I defile them</hi>&mdash;Why should I leave my creed
bed and obey Your call to come out of Babylon?
</p>

<p>
5:4. <hi rend='sans'>My Beloved</hi>&mdash;In His great love and pity for me.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Put in His hand</hi>&mdash;Exerted His mighty power.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>By the hole of the door</hi>&mdash;Rattled the time-lock.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And my bowels</hi>&mdash;My heart.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Were moved for Him</hi>&mdash;Was stirred to action, but too late
to go in with Him to the wedding.
</p>

<p>
5:5. <hi rend='sans'>I rose up</hi>&mdash;Roused myself to activity.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To open to my Beloved</hi>&mdash;Just as the Harvest was past.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And my hands</hi>&mdash;Holding the keys to the Bible, the <hi rend='italic'>Studies</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Dropped with myrrh</hi>&mdash;Wisdom, gleaned from the <hi rend='italic'>Scripture
Studies</hi>, till then neglected.
</p>

<pb n='355'/><anchor id='Pg355'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>With sweet smelling myrrh</hi>&mdash;A knowledge of all the
precious things of Present Truth.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Upon the handles</hi>&mdash;The lines of prophetical evidence.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the lock</hi>&mdash;The time features of the Lord's Plan.
</p>

<p>
5:6. <hi rend='sans'>I opened to my Beloved</hi>&mdash;After the Harvest work
was finished.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>But my Beloved</hi>&mdash;True to His word.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Had withdrawn Himself</hi>&mdash;<q>And they that were ready
went in with Him to the marriage.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And was gone</hi>&mdash;And the door was shut.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>My soul failed when He spake</hi>&mdash;I lacked the love, faith
and hope to obey promptly.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>I sought Him</hi>&mdash;<q>Many shall strive to enter in but shall
not be able when once the Master of the House hath risen
up and shut to the door.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>But found Him not</hi>&mdash;<q>I am He that shutteth and no man
openeth.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>I called Him</hi>&mdash;<q>Not every one that saith unto Me, Lord,
Lord, shall enter in.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>But He gave me no answer</hi>&mdash;No hope of being His Bride
and Joint-heir.
</p>

<p>
5:7. <hi rend='sans'>The watchmen</hi>&mdash;Watchmen in nominal Zion, the
clergy of the nominal church.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That went about the city</hi>&mdash;Christendom.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Found me</hi>&mdash;Observed my course in accepting Present
Truth and withdrawing from their systems.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>They smote me</hi>&mdash;<q>With arrows, even bitter words.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>They wounded me</hi>&mdash;Wounded my reputation.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The keepers</hi>&mdash;Civil authorities.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the walls</hi>&mdash;The Governments, the bulwarks of Christendom.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Took away my veil from me</hi>&mdash;Were instigated to destroy
me, to cause me to pass into death.
</p>

<p>
5:8. <hi rend='sans'>I charge you</hi>&mdash;The Foolish Virgin class continues.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>O daughters of Jerusalem</hi>&mdash;O all who profess to love Him.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>If ye find my Beloved</hi>&mdash;If you yourself expect to be of
the Bride class.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That ye tell Him</hi>&mdash;In my behalf.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That I am sick of love</hi>&mdash;Hungering for His companionship,
longing to see His face, despite the fact that I did
not open to Him promptly.
</p>

<p>
5:9. <hi rend='sans'>What is thy Beloved</hi>&mdash;The Lord's professed people,
now in nominal Zion, speak.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>More than another beloved</hi>&mdash;Why is Christ any more to
you than He is to me?
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>O thou fairest among women</hi>&mdash;The Lord's professed people
in nominal Zion begin to awake to the fact that the
last of the spiritually-minded ones are leaving them.
</p>

<pb n='356'/><anchor id='Pg356'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>What is thy Beloved</hi>&mdash;To you.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>More than another beloved</hi>&mdash;To another.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That thou dost so charge us</hi>&mdash;We would like to understand
the reasons why you are so deeply concerned, and
why you persist in saying, <q>The Harvest is past, the summer
is ended, and we are not saved.</q>
</p>

<p>
5:10. <hi rend='sans'>My Beloved is white</hi>&mdash;<q>Holy, harmless, undefiled
and separate from sinners.</q> The Foolish Virgin class
responds to the Lord's professed people in nominal Zion.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And ruddy</hi>&mdash;A reference to His pierced side. <q>He was
clothed in a vesture dipped in blood.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The chiefest</hi>&mdash;The standard-bearer or chieftain.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Among ten thousand</hi>&mdash;Among ten thousand warriors.
</p>

<p>
5:11. <hi rend='sans'>His head</hi>&mdash;<q>God gave Him to be the Head over all
things to the Church which is His Body, that in all things
He might have the preeminence.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Is as the most fine gold</hi>&mdash;<q>Who only hath immortality.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>His locks are bushy</hi>&mdash;His consecration is perfect and
complete.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And black as a raven</hi>&mdash;And He remained steadfast in it
unto death.
</p>

<p>
5:12. <hi rend='sans'>His eyes</hi>&mdash;Wisdom.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Are as the eyes of doves</hi>&mdash;Pure, peaceable, gentle.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>By the rivers of waters</hi>&mdash;By the channels of truth.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Washed with milk</hi>&mdash;Primary elements of the Truth.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And fitly set</hi>&mdash;All in perfect harmony.
</p>

<p>
5:13. <hi rend='sans'>His cheeks</hi>&mdash;His countenance towards me.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Are as a bed of spices</hi>&mdash;The personification of every
virtue and every grace.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>As sweet flowers</hi>&mdash;Towers of perfumes (margin), flowers
trained upon trellises; shedding a beauty and fragrance
compelling the attention of all.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>His lips like lilies</hi>&mdash;His speech modest, beautiful and
sweet. <q>Never man spake like this Man.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Dropping sweet smelling myrrh</hi>&mdash;Distilling Heavenly wisdom.
<q>My speech shall distil as the dew.</q>
</p>

<p>
5:14. <hi rend='sans'>His hands</hi>&mdash;As in rolling or unrolling a scroll or
parchment.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Are as gold rings</hi>&mdash;Conform to the shape of the roll.
<q>Thou art worthy to take the roll and to open the seals
thereof.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Set with the beryl</hi>&mdash;Love of the Father. See page <ref target='Pg335'>335</ref>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>His belly</hi>&mdash;The word signifies the whole body, from
shoulders to thighs.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Is as bright ivory</hi>&mdash;A beautiful vision.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Overlaid with sapphires</hi>&mdash;Faithfulness. See page <ref target='Pg334'>334</ref>.
<q>And they saw the God of Israel, and there was under His
feet as it were a paved work of a sapphire stone.</q>
</p>

<pb n='357'/><anchor id='Pg357'/>

<p>
5:15. <hi rend='sans'>His legs</hi>&mdash;The members that have been carrying
on the work of the Body.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Are as pillars of marble</hi>&mdash;<q>Him that overcometh will I
make a pillar in the Temple of My God.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Set upon sockets</hi>&mdash;Feet, the foot members.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of fine gold</hi>&mdash;<q>How beautiful upon the mountains are
the feet of Him!</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>His countenance</hi>&mdash;Smile of favor.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Is as Lebanon</hi>&mdash;Pure, invigorating, refreshing.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Excellent as the cedars</hi>&mdash;Everlasting life.
</p>

<p>
5:16. <hi rend='sans'>His mouth</hi>&mdash;His Word. <q>Man shall not live by
bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the
mouth of God.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Is most sweet</hi>&mdash;<q>All bare Him witness and wondered at
the gracious words that proceeded out of His mouth.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Yea, He is altogether lovely</hi>&mdash;It is impossible to describe
all His excellencies; He is the sum of all that is to be
desired.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>This is my Beloved</hi>&mdash;This is the One I love supremely.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And this is my Friend</hi>&mdash;<q>I've found a Friend, O such a
Friend!</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>O daughters of Jerusalem</hi>&mdash;O you who are nominally His.
</p>

<p>
6:1. <hi rend='sans'>Whither is thy Beloved gone</hi>&mdash;After the door is
shut, those who have been nominally Christ's begin to give
heed to the message of the Foolish Virgins.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>O thou fairest among women</hi>&mdash;O most spiritually-minded
amongst us.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Whither is thy Beloved turned aside</hi>&mdash;We realize that
He has entirely withdrawn Himself from us.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That we may seek Him with thee</hi>&mdash;Show us in the Word
how He is now to be found. <q>All that a man hath will
he give for his life.</q>
</p>

<p>
6:2. <hi rend='sans'>My Beloved</hi>&mdash;The Foolish Virgin class, now thoroughly
aroused to the facts, explain to the Lord's professed
children in nominal Zion.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Is gone down</hi>&mdash;His Second Advent is accomplished.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Into His garden</hi>&mdash;He has taken His Bride to Himself.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To the beds of spices</hi>&mdash;To accept from her heart-garden
the fragrant and sweet ingredients of the Holy Spirit.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To feed in the gardens</hi>&mdash;To receive to Himself the precious
fruits love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness,
goodness, faith, meekness, self-control.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And to gather lilies</hi>&mdash;To take the humble sweet ones
home; to gather the wheat class into the Heavenly garner.
</p>

<p>
6:3. <hi rend='sans'>I am my Beloved's</hi>&mdash;The Great Company can not
forget that they are precious in the Lord's sight.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And my Beloved is mine</hi>&mdash;<q>Fade, Fade, each earthly joy,
Jesus is mine.</q>
</p>

<pb n='358'/><anchor id='Pg358'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>He feedeth among the lilies</hi>&mdash;<q>The meek will He guide
in judgment; the meek will He teach His way.</q>
</p>

<p>
6:4. <hi rend='sans'>Thou art beautiful</hi>&mdash;At heart. The Lord again addresses
His Bride.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>O My love</hi>&mdash;<q>Love one another as I have loved you.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>As Tirzah</hi>&mdash;A delight.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Comely as Jerusalem</hi>&mdash;<q>The City of the Great King.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Terrible</hi>&mdash;In the conquest of evil.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>As an army with banners</hi>&mdash;To an opposing host.
</p>

<p>
6:5. <hi rend='sans'>Turn away thine eyes from Me</hi>&mdash;Observe the Lord's
modesty and humility.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For they have overcome Me</hi>&mdash;How the Lord delights to
express His appreciation of the virtues of His Bride,
despite the fact that they are all but feeble reflections of
His own!
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Thy hair</hi>&mdash;Righteousness. Woman's hair was given her
for a covering, and it is her glory. The righteousness of
Christ is the Bride's covering, and it is her glory.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Is as a flock of goats</hi>&mdash;Thick, luxuriant.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That appear from Mt. Gilead</hi>&mdash;The flocks of goats on Mt.
Gilead are of unusual size to this day.
</p>

<p>
6:6. <hi rend='sans'>Thy teeth</hi>&mdash;Masticators, grinders, assimilators of
spiritual food.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Are as a flock</hi>&mdash;In glistening array.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which go up from the washing</hi>&mdash;Cleansing by salivation.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Whereof every one bear twins</hi>&mdash;They come forth in
pairs.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And there is not one barren</hi>&mdash;None is without its mate.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Among them</hi>&mdash;The teeth are perfect in form and number,
illustrating the Bride's ability to feed upon the strong
meat which <q>belongeth to them that are of full age.</q>
</p>

<p>
6:7. <hi rend='sans'>As a piece of pomegranate</hi>&mdash;The pomegranate curiously
combines the flavors of all fruits. It thus well illustrates
the New Mind, which, under the influence of the
Holy Spirit, brings to perfection the fruitage of love, the
sum of all the Christian graces.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Are thy temples</hi>&mdash;Thy mind, the mind of the New Creature.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Within thy locks</hi>&mdash;Behind thy veil; concealed by the veil
of the flesh.
</p>

<p>
6:8. <hi rend='sans'>There are threescore queens</hi>&mdash;Nominal church organizations
openly joined to earthly heads.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And fourscore concubines</hi>&mdash;Even more are secretly violating
their pledges of spiritual virginity. Altogether the
census shows about 150 sects. See page <ref target='Pg160'>160</ref>, where all the
principal sects are enumerated.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And virgins without number</hi>&mdash;Foolish Virgins, really pure
at heart.
</p>

<pb n='359'/><anchor id='Pg359'/>

<p>
6:9. <hi rend='sans'>My dove, My undefiled</hi>&mdash;The Virgin Bride of Christ.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Is but one</hi>&mdash;<q>That they may be one, as We are.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The only one</hi>&mdash;To share the glory, honor and immortality
of Christ.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of her mother</hi>&mdash;The Oath-bound Covenant.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>She is the choice one</hi>&mdash;The specially favored one.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of her that bore her</hi>&mdash;The antitypical Sarah.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The daughters</hi>&mdash;Professed children of God.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Saw her</hi>&mdash;Discerned her, at the time of the manifestation
of the Sons of God.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And blessed her</hi>&mdash;Called her blessed.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Yea the queens</hi>&mdash;Those openly affiliated with worldly
churches in union with worldly governments.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the concubines</hi>&mdash;Those secretly thus affiliated.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And they praised her</hi>&mdash;Acknowledged, in the end, that
her course was right and her exaltation merited.
</p>

<p>
6:10. <hi rend='sans'>Who is she</hi>&mdash;The Bride.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That looketh forth</hi>&mdash;Beams resplendent.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>As the morning</hi>&mdash;The Millennial Morning.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Fair</hi>&mdash;Pure, just, holy, good.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>As the moon</hi>&mdash;<q>The law is fulfilled in us who walk not
after the flesh but after the Spirit.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Clear</hi>&mdash;Glorious, light-giving.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>As the Sun</hi>&mdash;<q>Then shall the righteous shine forth as the
Sun in the Kingdom of their Father.</q> <q>Who hath ears to
hear, let him hear.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And terrible</hi>&mdash;In the conquest of evil.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>As an army with banners</hi>&mdash;To an opposing host.
</p>

<p>
6:11. <hi rend='sans'>I went down</hi>&mdash;Following the exaltation of the
Bride. Christ speaks.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Into the garden of nuts</hi>&mdash;The heart-gardens of the Foolish
Virgin class. A garden of nuts does not as quickly
yield its treasures as a garden of spices, to which the
Bride's heart garden is likened.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To see the fruits of the valley</hi>&mdash;Of the class that had
not risen with the Bride to the Pisgah heights of faith and
hope and love.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And to see whether</hi>&mdash;As a result of their experiences in
the Time of Trouble.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The vine flourished</hi>&mdash;Their characters had been properly
affected.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the pomegranates budded</hi>&mdash;To see whether there is
promise of the fruits of the Spirit coming to perfection.
</p>

<p>
6:12. <hi rend='sans'>Or ever I was aware</hi>&mdash;I knew not how it was.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>My soul</hi>&mdash;Filled with love and pity for them.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Made me like the chariots</hi>&mdash;Swiftly speeding to them to
bless and help them in their hour of extremity.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of Amminadib</hi>&mdash;Of My willing people, the Bride.
</p>

<pb n='360'/><anchor id='Pg360'/>

<p>
6:13. <hi rend='sans'>Return, return</hi>&mdash;<q>Return, ye backsliding children,
and I will heal your backslidings.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>O Shulamite</hi>&mdash;(Uneven one), you who have been uneven
in your love, hope and faith.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Return, return, that We</hi>&mdash;My Father and I.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>May look upon thee</hi>&mdash;Smile upon thee; bestow blessings.
<q>With gladness and rejoicing shall they be brought: they
shall enter into the King's palace.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>What will ye see</hi>&mdash;You who study the matter.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>In the Shulamite</hi>&mdash;The Foolish Virgin class. The answer
is that you will see.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>As it were the company</hi>&mdash;The Great Company.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of two armies</hi>&mdash;<q>A great multitude which no man can
number.</q>
</p>

<p>
7:1. <hi rend='sans'>How beautiful are thy feet</hi>&mdash;<q>How beautiful upon
the mountains are the feet of them that preach the Gospel
of peace.</q> The Lord again addresses His Bride.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>With shoes</hi>&mdash;<q>Feet shod with the preparation of the
Gospel of peace.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>O Prince's daughter</hi>&mdash;Daughter of the King, Jehovah.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The joints</hi>&mdash;<q>The whole Body, fitly joined together and
compacted with that which every joint supplieth.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of thy thighs</hi>&mdash;(Softness) gentleness, tenderness.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Are like jewels</hi>&mdash;<q>They shall be Mine, saith the Lord
of Hosts, in that day when I make up My jewels.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The work of the hands</hi>&mdash;<q>For we are His workmanship.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of a cunning workman</hi>&mdash;<q>As for God, His work is perfect.</q>
</p>

<p>
7:2. <hi rend='sans'>Thy navel</hi>&mdash;Umbilical cord; by which you are
joined to the Oath-bound Covenant, the Sarah Covenant;
the cord of faith.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Is like a round goblet</hi>&mdash;Generous in capacity.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which wanteth not liquor</hi>&mdash;Is full of the Divine promises.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Thy belly</hi>&mdash;Spiritual digestive tract.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Is like a heap of wheat</hi>&mdash;Solid spiritual food.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Set about with lilies</hi>&mdash;Flowers of humility.
</p>

<p>
7:3. <hi rend='sans'>Thy two breasts</hi>&mdash;<q>The breasts of her consolations,
whereof ye may suck and be satisfied, milk out and be
delighted.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Are like two young roes</hi>&mdash;<q>The Scriptures, the Word of
God, quick and powerful.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That are twins</hi>&mdash;The Old and New Testament Scriptures
are identical in origin, spirit and purpose.
</p>

<p>
7:4. <hi rend='sans'>Thy neck</hi>&mdash;Willingness to bear burdens.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Is as a tower of ivory</hi>&mdash;Purity and strength.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Thine eyes</hi>&mdash;Wisdom, Heaven-sent.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Like the fishpools in Heshbon</hi>&mdash;Pure, deep.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>By the gate of Bath-Rabbim</hi>&mdash;Calm and strong.
</p>

<pb n='361'/><anchor id='Pg361'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Thy nose</hi>&mdash;Scent for spiritual food.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Is as the tower of Lebanon</hi>&mdash;Lofty, high, noble.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which looketh toward Damascus</hi>&mdash;<q>Visions of beauty
rise before us.</q> <q>He that lacketh these things is blind
and can not see afar off.</q>
</p>

<p>
7:5. <hi rend='sans'>Thine head upon thee</hi>&mdash;Thy reasoning faculties.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Is like Carmel</hi>&mdash;(Crimson.) <q>Come now and let us reason
together, saith the Lord; though your sins be as
scarlet they shall be as white as snow; though they be
red like crimson they shall be as wool.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the hair of thine head</hi>&mdash;Thy righteousness. Woman's
hair was given for a covering, and her glory. The righteousness
of Christ is the Bride's covering, and her glory.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Like purple</hi>&mdash;Royalty. The robe of Christ's righteousness,
which the Bride now wears, will ultimately become
the robe of the Queen.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The King is held</hi>&mdash;Bound, captive.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>In the galleries</hi>&mdash;The happy prison-house of the charms
of His Bride.
</p>

<p>
7:6. <hi rend='sans'>How fair</hi>&mdash;Beautiful at heart. <q>The King's daughter
is all glorious within.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And how pleasant</hi>&mdash;When the New Creature is in full
control.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Art thou, O beloved</hi>&mdash;<q>Who shall separate us from the
love of Christ?</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For delights</hi>&mdash;For one with whom to enjoy the Father's
favors and blessings throughout eternity; heirs together of
the grace of life.
</p>

<p>
7:7. <hi rend='sans'>This thy stature</hi>&mdash;The stature of the fulness of
Christ.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Is like a palm tree</hi>&mdash;Tall, upright.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And thy breasts</hi>&mdash;<q>The breasts of her consolations.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To clusters of grapes</hi>&mdash;Suggestive of food and refreshment
for the hungry, when they shall suck and be satisfied,
milk out and be delighted.
</p>

<p>
7:8. <hi rend='sans'>I said</hi>&mdash;The world, in the Messianic Age, is the
speaker.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>I will go up to the palm tree</hi>&mdash;<q>And many people shall
come and say, Come and let us go up to the House of the
Lord.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>I will take hold</hi>&mdash;Lay hold of eternal life.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the boughs thereof</hi>&mdash;The members bending over to
lift me out of the miry clay and the horrible pit.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Now also thy breasts</hi>&mdash;Feeding and helping the famishing
world in the New Age.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Shall be as clusters of the vine</hi>&mdash;Giving life and health.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the smell of thy nose</hi>&mdash;Thy scent for spiritual things
and the blessed results that follow.
</p>

<pb n='362'/><anchor id='Pg362'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Like apples</hi>&mdash;Food for the hungry.
</p>

<p>
7:9. <hi rend='sans'>And the roof of thy mouth</hi>&mdash;Where the praises of
Jehovah reverberate.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Like the best wine</hi>&mdash;The new wine of the Kingdom.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For my Beloved</hi>&mdash;Christ will then be the world's Beloved,
also.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That goeth down sweetly</hi>&mdash;<q>I will not henceforth drink
this fruit of the vine till I drink it new with you in the
Kingdom.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Causing the lips</hi>&mdash;<q>Awake and sing, ye that dwell in the
dust.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of those that are asleep</hi>&mdash;In death.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To speak</hi>&mdash;Shall the dead arise and praise thee?
</p>

<p>
7:10. <hi rend='sans'>I am my Beloved's</hi>&mdash;The Bride speaks again.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And His desire is towards me</hi>&mdash;<q>So shall the King greatly
desire thy beauty.</q>
</p>

<p>
7:11. <hi rend='sans'>Come My beloved</hi>&mdash;The Lord addresses His Bride
after the Time of Trouble.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Let us go forth</hi>&mdash;On our great mission of love and
mercy.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Into the field</hi>&mdash;Into the world, which needs us so much.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Let us lodge</hi>&mdash;Take up our temporary dwelling-place.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>In the villages</hi>&mdash;<q>Have thou authority over ten cities!</q>
<q>The tabernacle of God is with men.</q>
</p>

<p>
7:12. <hi rend='sans'>Let us get up early</hi>&mdash;In the dawn of the New Age.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To the vineyards</hi>&mdash;The hearts of mankind in general.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Let us see if the vine flourish</hi>&mdash;If men are beginning to
draw nigh to God.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The tender grape appear</hi>&mdash;If there is promise of an ultimate
fruitage pleasing to the Father.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And the pomegranates appear</hi>&mdash;If there are evidences that
love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness,
meekness, are going to abound.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>There</hi>&mdash;When you see with what infinite patience and
wisdom and love I cultivate the heart-gardens of men.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Will I give thee</hi>&mdash;Cause thee to appreciate fully.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>My loves</hi>&mdash;The love with which I have loved thee.
</p>

<p>
7:13. <hi rend='sans'>The mandrakes give a smell</hi>&mdash;The regeneration of
the world is nigh.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And at our gates</hi>&mdash;The Ancient Worthies are the gates
by which the restitution classes will come to the Mediator.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Are all manner of pleasant</hi>&mdash;Agreeable, attractive, pleasing.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Fruits new and old</hi>&mdash;The virtues which the Bride cultivated
and others especially appropriate to the changed
conditions of the New Age.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which I have laid up</hi>&mdash;As a part of the much-diversified
Plan of the Ages.
</p>

<pb n='363'/><anchor id='Pg363'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For thee, O My beloved</hi>&mdash;For thy enjoyment.
</p>

<p>
8:1 <hi rend='sans'>O that Thou</hi>&mdash;My Lord and Head. The Bride addresses
her Lord.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Wert as my brother</hi>&mdash;Not so immeasurably above me in
character and station.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That sucked the breasts of my mother</hi>&mdash;So that we
would be on an equality with each other.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>When I should find Thee without</hi>&mdash;Beyond the house of
flesh.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>I would kiss Thee</hi>&mdash;Would feel free to express in Thy
presence the great love I feel.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Yea I should not</hi>&mdash;Under such circumstances.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Be despised</hi>&mdash;By the critics who now blame me for presuming
to so high a station as to be Thy Bride.
</p>

<p>
8:2. <hi rend='sans'>I would lead thee and bring thee</hi>&mdash;But now it is
Thou alone that are competent to lead.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Into my mother's house</hi>&mdash;The antitypical Sarah tent.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Who would instruct me</hi>&mdash;<q>They shall be all taught of
God.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>I would cause Thee to drink</hi>&mdash;Accept, appropriate, enjoy.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of spiced wine</hi>&mdash;Doctrines flavored with the Holy Spirit.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of the juice of my pomegranate</hi>&mdash;The pomegranate curiously
combines the flavors of all fruits. It thus well illustrates
the fruitage of love, the sum of all the Christian
graces.
</p>

<p>
8:3. <hi rend='sans'>His left hand</hi>&mdash;His power as illustrated in the guidance
of His people into all necessary truth.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Should be under my head</hi>&mdash;Directing my mental faculties.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And his right hand</hi>&mdash;His power as illustrated in overruling
all things that would harm me.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Should embrace me</hi>&mdash;<q>Secure in His tender embrace, I'd
have nothing to doubt or to fear.</q>
</p>

<p>
8:4. <hi rend='sans'>I charge you</hi>&mdash;I must give you this message.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>O daughters of Jerusalem</hi>&mdash;Professed children of God.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That ye stir not up</hi>&mdash;Seek not to arouse.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Nor awake my Love</hi>&mdash;To take charge of earth's affairs.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Until He please</hi>&mdash;For when He does stand up to assume
control, <q>there will be a Time of Trouble such as never
was,</q> in which all the earthly organizations upon which
you have set your heart will be obliterated.
</p>

<p>
8:5. <hi rend='sans'>Who is this</hi>&mdash;The Heavenly Father thus speaks of
the Bride.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That cometh up</hi>&mdash;That cometh forward into prominence.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>From the wilderness</hi>&mdash;At the end of 1260 years of wilderness
hiding and papal supremacy.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Leaning upon her Beloved</hi>&mdash;Upon her Lord.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>I raised thee up</hi>&mdash;<q>It is God that justifieth. Who is he
that condemneth?</q>
</p>

<pb n='364'/><anchor id='Pg364'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Under the apple tree</hi>&mdash;Under Christ, the Author and Finisher
of your salvation.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>There thy mother</hi>&mdash;The antitypical Sarah.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Brought thee forth</hi>&mdash;<q>Shall I bring to the birth and not
cause to bring forth?</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>There she brought thee forth</hi>&mdash;The Oath-bound Covenant
accomplished its end.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That bare thee</hi>&mdash;From earthly to Heavenly conditions.
</p>

<p>
8:6. <hi rend='sans'>Set me as a seal</hi>&mdash;Indelibly impressed. The Bride
beseeches her Lord.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Upon Thy heart</hi>&mdash;Thine infinite love.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>As a seal upon Thine arm</hi>&mdash;Thine infinite power.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For love</hi>&mdash;Such love as I have for Thee.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Is strong as death</hi>&mdash;<q>Neither death nor life shall be able
to separate us from the love of God which is in Christ
Jesus our Lord.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Jealousy</hi>&mdash;The fear that I may not, after all, prove acceptable
to You, as Your Bride.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Is cruel as the grave</hi>&mdash;Sheol, oblivion.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The coals thereof</hi>&mdash;The weaknesses of my fallen flesh.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Are coals of fire</hi>&mdash;Burned into my very soul.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which hath a most vehement flame</hi>&mdash;These burning
thoughts of my imperfections will be with me as long as I
am in this tabernacle.
</p>

<p>
8:7. <hi rend='sans'>Many waters</hi>&mdash;Nor angels nor principalities.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Cannot quench love</hi>&mdash;The Father reassures the anxious
Bride.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Neither can the floods</hi>&mdash;<q>Nor things present nor things
to come.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Drown It</hi>&mdash;Extinguish it.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>If a man</hi>&mdash;The Man whom I have ordained.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Would give all the substance of his House</hi>&mdash;All His own
glorious station with me on the Throne of the Universe.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For love</hi>&mdash;In exchange for the love you have manifested
for Him throughout the dark night of your earthly career.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>It would utterly be condemned</hi>&mdash;Despised by the courts
of Heaven.
</p>

<p>
8:8. <hi rend='sans'>We</hi>&mdash;The Lord and His Bride together speak.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Have a little sister</hi>&mdash;The Foolish Virgin class, born of
the same Father and the same antitypical Sarah, the
Oath-bound Covenant.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And she hath no breasts</hi>&mdash;Is not fully developed.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>What shall we do</hi>&mdash;What will be the Divine arrangement?
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For our sister</hi>&mdash;The Great Company class.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>In the day</hi>&mdash;The close of the Time of Trouble.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>When she shall be spoken for</hi>&mdash;Called to render up her
account.
</p>

<pb n='365'/><anchor id='Pg365'/>

<p>
8:9. <hi rend='sans'>If she be a wall</hi>&mdash;Bulwark of truth, on the One
Foundation.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>We will build upon her</hi>&mdash;<q>Other foundation can no man
lay.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>A palace of silver</hi>&mdash;Give her a place with the Great Company
class.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And if she be a door</hi>&mdash;By which men and women have
found the Lord and the Truth.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>We will inclose her</hi>&mdash;Give her an environment.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>With boards of cedar</hi>&mdash;Everlasting life.
</p>

<p>
8:10. <hi rend='sans'>I am a wall</hi>&mdash;The Bride thus refers to herself as
having been a staunch defender of the Truth. <q>Lo, we
have left all and followed Thee.</q> What then shall we
have?
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And my breasts</hi>&mdash;Unlike the Foolish Virgins.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Like towers</hi>&mdash;<q>Whereof ye may suck and be satisfied
milk out and be delighted.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Then</hi>&mdash;Because I reached the development of character
He desired.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Was I in His eyes</hi>&mdash;The eyes of the Bridegroom.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>As one that found favor</hi>&mdash;Peace (margin).
</p>

<p>
8:11. <hi rend='sans'>Solomon</hi>&mdash;Christ.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Had a Vineyard</hi>&mdash;For growing the fruitage of love.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>At Baalhamon</hi>&mdash;(Lord of the multitude.) A reference
to the Messianic Reign, in which Christ will be Lord of all.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>He let out the vineyards</hi>&mdash;Gave the immediate care.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Unto keepers</hi>&mdash;The Ancient Worthies, <q>whom Thou mayest
make princes in all the earth.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Every one</hi>&mdash;Of the keepers.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>For the fruit thereof</hi>&mdash;The kind of fruitage expected.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Was to bring</hi>&mdash;Present, offer.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>A thousand pieces of silver</hi>&mdash;Yield a rich return of truth
and praise from the hearts cultivated.
</p>

<p>
8:12. <hi rend='sans'>My vineyard</hi>&mdash;The same vineyard.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Which is mine</hi>&mdash;We are made joint-heirs with Christ.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Is before me</hi>&mdash;Will take a thousand years to till.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Thou, O Solomon</hi>&mdash;Christ.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Must have a thousand</hi>&mdash;Tributes of praise.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And those that kept the fruit thereof</hi>&mdash;The Ancient Worthies.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Two hundred</hi>&mdash;A fifth as much, as their portion.
</p>

<p>
8:13. <hi rend='sans'>Thou</hi>&mdash;The restitution classes, address their Lord.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>That dwellest in the gardens</hi>&mdash;The heart-gardens of the
redeemed race.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The companions</hi>&mdash;The Great Company; the companions
that followed the Bride.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Hearken to thy voice</hi>&mdash;Have entered with joy into the
King's palace.
</p>

<pb n='366'/><anchor id='Pg366'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Cause me to hear it</hi>&mdash;O Lord, I see there is hope to
<emph>me</emph>. I <emph>also</emph> would be Thine. Show <emph>me</emph> Thy will.
</p>

<p>
8:14. <hi rend='sans'>Make haste, my Beloved</hi>&mdash;The restitution classes
continue.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>And be Thou like</hi>&mdash;In thy swiftness of movement.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>To a roe or to a young hart</hi>&mdash;Leaping from mountain to
mountain, kingdom to kingdom.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Upon the mountains</hi>&mdash;The various divisions of the Kingdom
of God during the Messianic Reign.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Of spices</hi>&mdash;Good deeds, kind words and noble thoughts.
<q>And I will make all my mountains a way, and my highways
shall be exalted.</q> <q>The kingdoms of this world are
become the Kingdom of our Lord, and of His Christ, and
He shall reign for ever and ever.</q> Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Heavenly Bridegroom</head>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l>That He is mine and I am His, Oh! wondrous thought.</l>
<l>I am so poor, so weak, so lowly, can there aught</l>
<l>Of worthiness in me be found, that He should love</l>
<l>And seek me for His Bride? I hear His voice, <q rend='pre'>My Dove,</q></l>
<l>Thou art all fair, My Spouse, there is no spot in thee;</l>
<l>Thy speech is comely, better is thy love to Me</l>
<l>Than wine! Thine eyes as Heshbon's fish-pools, and like flocks</l>
<l>Upon Mount Gilead are thy spiced and flower-decked locks.</l>
<l>The winter's past, My Dove, come, come with Me away,</l>
<l><q rend='post'>Far spent the night, make ready for thy nuptial day!</q></l>
<l>My heart responds, <q rend='pre'>Throughout the many-centuried night</q></l>
<l>I've longed for Thee. I've waited for the dawning light;</l>
<l>And I have laid Thee like sweet myrrh upon my breast,</l>
<l>Thine arm beneath my weary head hath brought me rest.</l>
<l>Thou whom my soul doth love, Thy countenance is fair</l>
<l>To see within the secret places of the stair;</l>
<l>Thy head is like fine gold, how beautiful Thy feet!</l>
<l>Thine eyes as doves' eyes, and Thy lips with honey sweet.</l>
<l>I rise, my Lord, I leave my father's house, behold</l>
<l>My Robe of Righteousness, my raiment of wrought gold!</l>
<l>Oh! wealth of love divine, that claims me for Thine own.</l>
<l>Oh! miracle of grace, to seat me on Thy Throne.</l>
<l>Oh! glorious future hopes, Oh! bliss beyond compare,</l>
<l><q rend='post'>Through all eternity Thy love and work to share!</q></l>
</lg>

<p>
&mdash;G.W.S.
</p>

<p>
June 25, 1917.
</p>

</quote>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='367'/><anchor id='Pg367'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Book Of The Prophet Ezekiel</head>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 1&mdash;God's Character And Plan</head>

<p>
1:1. <hi rend='sans'>Now it came to pass in the thirtieth year, in the
fourth month, in the fifth day of the month, at I was among
the captives by the river of Chebar, that the heavens were
opened, and I saw visions of God.</hi>&mdash;Christ promised that
at His Second Advent He would raise up a <q>faithful and
wise servant,</q> or <q>steward,</q> who should watch and give
forth in due season meat for the Household of Faith. This
one should be given charge of all the Storehouse, the Word
of God, to bring out of it things new and old. (Matt. 24:44-47;
Luke 12:42-44.) The Prophet Ezekiel types this
servant. As Ezekiel was among the Lord's people, the
Hebrews, in captivity in literal Babylon, this servant was
among those in captivity in Mystic Babylon, beside the
great river Chebar (<q>Joining</q>), the stream of commerce
which joins the nations, on which Christendom is founded,
and from which she draws her support, as did in a literal
sense Babylon from her great river, Euphrates. In the
early seventies Charles Taze Russell found himself engaged
in commerce, but earnestly studying the Word of God, and
striving to teach what he found therein. In fulfilment of
the Divine promise the Heavenly things were opened to
him (Matt. 3:16), and he saw the significance of the visions,
prophecies, given in olden times by the Almighty. He was
given a crystal-clear understanding of the character of
Jehovah.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url="images/img382.png" rend="width: 60%">
    <head>Ezekiel's Vision By The River Of Chebar</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
1:2, 3. <hi rend='sans'>In the fifth day of the month, which was the fifth
year of king Jehoiachin's captivity, the Word of the Lord
came expressly unto Ezekiel the priest, the son of Buzi,
in the land of the Chaldeans by the river Chebar; and the
hand of the Lord was there upon him.</hi>&mdash;Men do not raise
themselves up to become great and honored agents in
God's outworking of the Divine Plan of the Ages (Luke
18:14; Eph. 3:11); but now and then throughout the centuries
Jehovah Himself (1 Cor. 12:18) has raised up Christian
men to carry forward one step or another of His purposes.
God made special use of St Paul, St John, Arius,
Peter Waldo, John Wycliffe, Martin Luther and Charles T.
Russell. The significance of the word Ezekiel is <q>God is
<pb n='368'/><anchor id='Pg368'/>
strong,</q> and epitomizes the faith and the message of Pastor
Russell. He shows the power of Jehovah to save His people
now (Acts 15:14), and later to save all the willing and
obedient of mankind. (Acts 15:17.) As Ezekiel was the
son of Buzi, <q>Contemned of God,</q> Pastor Russell was born
the child of a nominal religious system which is unfaithful
to Jehovah. Pastor Russell, by the faithful carrying out
of his vow of consecration to Divine service, was accepted
as a true priest of the Almighty. He sacrificed himself
and all that he had until, in October, 1916, he died penniless,
but rich in the things of God. Chosen expressly by
God to declare the message of Present Truth to the last,
or Laodicean age, of the Church, the hand, power, of Jehovah
was upon him.
</p>

<p>
1:4. <hi rend='sans'>And I looked and behold, a whirlwind came out of
the north, a great cloud, and a fire infolding itself, and a
brightness was about it; and out of the midst thereof as
the colour of amber, out of the midst of the fire.</hi>&mdash;As a
young man Charles T. Russell was looking intently to see
what might be discerned in the Word of God. <q>Watch,</q>
said the Master. Pastor Russell took for his motto, <q>I will
stand upon my watch, and set me upon the tower, and will
watch to see what He will say unto me.</q> (Hab. 2:1) He
called his semi-monthly publication, <q><hi rend='smallcaps'>The Watch Tower</hi></q>;
and, firm in the belief that the Second Advent took place
in 1874, he included as a sub-title, <q>And Herald of Christ's
Presence.</q> The north symbolizes the spiritual phase of
the Kingdom of God. (Isa. 14:13; D. 653.) Pastor Russell
beheld coming, permitted by God, a great Time of Trouble,
a whirlwind of warfare, revolution and anarchy. (Jer. 25:32;
Psa. 58:9, 10; D. 528.) It was the cloud accompanying
the approach to human affairs of Him for whose Kingdom
many have so long prayed. <q>Clouds and darkness are
round about Him: righteousness and judgment are the
habitation of His Throne, a fire goeth before Him and
burneth up His enemies round about.</q> (Psa. 97:2) A
conflagration, beginning with world war, is upon the earth,
developing into revolution and anarchy. Fire symbolises
the last of these misfortunes. (Dan. 7:11) The situation
is complicated, infolding, perplexing. None of the national
leaders understand the situation. To the poor world, in
gross darkness, and lying <q>in the wicked one,</q> the cloud
is full of darkness (Isa. 60:2), of gloominess (Joel 2:2;
Zeph. 1:15); but to those who are taken out of the world
and into Christ, it is full of brightness and hope&mdash;a white
cloud, with a silver lining. In the bright light of the
dawning Day of Christ the faces of the Lord's people light
up with joy as they see these things coming to pass; for
<pb n='369'/><anchor id='Pg369'/>
their <q>deliverance draweth nigh</q> (Luke 21:28)&mdash;the deliverance,
too, of the whole world from the kingdom of Satan,
the god of this world (2 Cor. 4:4), into the glorious Kingdom
of God, the other side of the trouble. With the understanding
of God, His work, plan and purpose, there
shone forth the amber, golden glow of the Divine presence,
and of the true character, nature and glory of the Almighty
God of Love. The Father Himself is supervising the troublous
commotion, bruising to heal (Hos. 6:1), and <q>shortening
the days.</q>&mdash;Matt. 24:22.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url="images/img383a.png" rend="width: 60%">
    <head>One Of The Living Creatures</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
1:5. <hi rend='sans'>Also out of the midst thereof came the likeness of
four living creatures. And this was their appearance;
they had the likeness of a man.</hi>&mdash;Out of the contemplation
of the cloud of trouble, the worldwide commotion, the
destructive anarchy, and of the golden amber glow of
God's presence, came a wonderful understanding of something
long misunderstood and misrepresented&mdash;the character
of God. As the vision showed <q>four living creatures,</q>
so the Divine character was seen by the Laodicean steward
to consist of four active principles (Rev. 3:14); Justice,
Power, Love and Wisdom. The four have the likeness of
a perfect man.
</p>

<p>
1:6. <hi rend='sans'>And every one had four faces, and every one had
four wings.</hi>&mdash;Each of the four attributes has four characteristics
or attributes; and each has the Word of God
(wings&mdash;Rev. 12:14), in the Old and New Testament, in
two different ways of operation (two pairs).
</p>

<p>
1:7. <hi rend='sans'>And their feet were straight feet; and the sole of
their feet was like the sole of a calf's foot: and they sparkled
like the colour of burnished brass.</hi>&mdash;The feet members
of Christ, embodying the Divine attributes on earth, are
righteous (straight) in Christ's righteousness, pure, unblemished
in God's sight, holy, acceptable, living sacrifices
(the calf is a type of unblemished sacrifice); and they
shine with the imputed perfection of the Man Christ Jesus.
</p>

<p>
1:8. <hi rend='sans'>And they had the hands of a man under their
wings on their four sides: and they four had their faces
and their wings.</hi>&mdash;The hand is symbolic of power and of
execution of purpose. Overshadowed by the Word of God
is the Divine power (hand) to execute the thing purposed,
operating through human channels, through the power of
men. He shows the qualities of the Divine mind through
man. Shielded, protected, sustained by the Word (wings)&mdash;(Psa.
61:4), the work of the Almighty goes on through
<q>the foolishness of preaching.</q> (1 Cor. 1:21.) Men and
women are <q>coworkers with God.</q> (2 Cor. 6:1.) The
hands (powers) of man are instruments for the operation
of infinite Justice, Power, Love and Wisdom.
</p>

<pb n='372'/><anchor id='Pg372'/>

<p>
1:9. <hi rend='sans'>Their wings were joined one to another; they
turned not when they went; they went everyone straight
forward.</hi>&mdash;The wings (Psa. 91:4; Rev. 12:14) are perfectly
joined together in unity of purpose and action. Straight
on to the end ordained of God goes His Word, upholding
and strengthening.&mdash;Isa. 46:10, 11.
</p>

<p>
1:10. <hi rend='sans'>As for the likeness of their faces, they four had
the face of a man, and the face of a lion, on the right side:
and they four had the face of an ox on the left side; they
four also had the face of an eagle.</hi>&mdash;The character of Jehovah
possesses four fundamental attributes, each composed
of all the others. The four faces or features of the living
creatures represent the four attributes of God, each inseparable
from the others, and in each operate each and all of
the four. Divine Justice operates in the fulness of Power,
Love and Wisdom. In the fall of man into sin, unbending
Justice enforced death for disobedience. Love delayed the
execution of the sentence upon Adam 930 years (Gen. 5:5),
that Wisdom might impress upon the erring human son
an indelible lesson of the exceeding sinfulness of sin (Rom.
7:13) and the extent of the penalty, death, that man, by
said experience, might <q>know evil.</q> (Gen. 3:5.) Divine
power will raise man from the dead, that he may learn to
<q>know good</q> and experience the fulness of the Father's
Love and Wisdom. All who are willing and obedient, who
consecrate fully to God's will, shall enjoy <q>pleasures forevermore</q>
(Psa. 16:11) in the sunshine of Divine favor.
The unwilling and disobedient shall suffer the full penalty
of Justice in the Second Death (Rev. 21:8), <q>utter destruction</q>
(2 Thes. 1:9), final and eternal obliteration. (Psa.
37:10.) The face of a man symbolizes the quality of Love,
in the character image and likeness of God (Gen. 1:27), the
God of love. (1 John 4:8.) The ox represents Power
(Rev. 4:7); for no animal is stronger, or more patient in
the exercise of strength. The majestic lion is God's Justice,
roaring its message of death, and executing all that
oppose its voice. (Psa. 89:14.) No other creature is so
far-sighted, or soars so high as the eagle. The eagle
symbolizes Wisdom, far-seeing, ordering all the affairs of
the Almighty along the lines of Justice, Power and Love.
</p>

<p>
1:11. <hi rend='sans'>Thus were their faces: and their wings were
stretched upward; two wings of every one were joined
one to another, and two covered their bodies.</hi>&mdash;Each pair
of wings (Rev. 12:14) symbolizes a separate function of
God's Word; one pair to fly with, to carry forward the
Plan in the spirit realm, the powers of the air (Eph. 2:2),
the other to uphold <q>all things by the Word</q> (Heb. 1:3)
and to cover and protect.&mdash;Psa. 91:4.
</p>

<pb n='373'/><anchor id='Pg373'/>

<p>
1:12. <hi rend='sans'>And they went every one straight forward:
whither the spirit was to go, they went; and they turned
not when they went.</hi>&mdash;Not with wavering, as darkened
minds imagine, proceeds the Divine Word, but <q>without
variableness or shadow of turning.</q> (Jas. 1:17.) Wheresoever
the mind, or Spirit, of Jehovah sends forth His
Word, thither straight onward go perfect Justice, Power,
Love and Wisdom.
</p>

<p>
1:13. <hi rend='sans'>As for the likeness of the living creatures, their
appearance was like burning coals of fire, and like the
appearance of lamps: it went up and down among the living
creatures; and the fire was bright, and out of the fire
went forth lightning.</hi>&mdash;God's Justice, Power, Love and Wisdom
glow with the light of wisdom. The understanding
of God's attributes makes every quality of the Almighty
to glow with a wondrous illumination to anyone given to
see the <q>visions of God</q> first perceived clearly by the
Laodicean Servant. <q>Thy Word is a lamp</q> (Psa. 119:105),
shedding light in the darkness, effecting a personal local
illumination. The Word is a lamp to the <q>feet</q> members
of Christ. (Eph. 1:23.) Up and down, everywhere,
throughout all the Divine qualities, wherever manifested,
spreads the illumination now shining through the Lamp,
the Word.
</p>

<p>
1:14. <hi rend='sans'>And the living creatures ran and returned as the
appearance of a flash of lightning.</hi>&mdash;In the operation of
Divine Justice, Power, Love and Wisdom are sudden
gleams of Heavenly wisdom upon great problems, such
as now light up the dark clouds of the Time of Trouble.
</p>

<p>
1:15. <hi rend='sans'>Now as I beheld the living creatures, behold one
wheel upon the earth by the living creatures, with his four
faces.</hi>&mdash;The word <q>cycle,</q> or <q>wheel,</q> is familiar in bicycle,
motorcycle, and in cycle as applied to epochs. The
Divine attributes operate upon human society, the symbolic
earth, in cycles, or ages (Eph. 3:11), and in the
mechanisms of ages by which God's Plan is carried forward,
His character, or face, is seen.
</p>

<p>
1:16. <hi rend='sans'>The appearance of the wheels and their work was
like unto the colour of a beryl: and they four had one
likeness; and their appearance and their work was as it
were a wheel in the middle of a wheel.</hi>&mdash;Pliny says of the
beryl or chrysolithos, <q>It is a transparent stone with a
refulgence like that of gold.</q> Says Smith's Bible Dictionary,
<q>The ancient chrysolithos, or modern topaz, appears
to have a better claim than any other stone to represent
the <foreign rend='italic'>tarshish</foreign> of the Hebrew Bible.</q> Gold is symbolic of
things Divine. These golden cycles are the Divinely appointed
ages in connection with the four attributes of
<pb n='374'/><anchor id='Pg374'/>
Deity. The Divine operations are not in one simple age,
cycle, or manner of operation, but cycle within cycle, age
within age, many operations working together <q>manifold</q>
(Eph. 3:10), like a vast and complicated machine.
</p>

<p>
1:17. <hi rend='sans'>When they went, they went upon their four sides;
and they turned not when they went.</hi>&mdash;Divine Justice conflicts
not with Divine Love, nor with Wisdom nor Power,
but all qualities are in simultaneous operation. They proceed
along lines planned ages ago.&mdash;Jas. 1:17.
</p>

<p>
1:18. <hi rend='sans'>As for their rings, they were so high that they
were dreadful; and their rings were full of eyes round
about them four.</hi>&mdash;<q>As the heavens are higher than the
earth, so are My ways (plans) higher than your ways.</q>
(Isa. 55:9.) The Plan of the Ages reveals the lengths,
breadths, heights and depths of the purposes of God, and
fills the reverent soul with awe. The Plan of God is full
of the infinite Wisdom (eyes&mdash;Psa. 32:8) of its Author.&mdash;B. 305.
</p>

<p>
1:19. <hi rend='sans'>And when the living creatures went, the wheels
went by them: and when the living creatures were lifted
up from the earth, the wheels were lifted up.</hi>&mdash;Whenever
God's attributes operate they are in accordance with the
Divine Plan; sometimes the Divine qualities are exercised
towards celestial things and sometimes towards things terrestrial.&mdash;1
Cor. 15:40.
</p>

<p>
1:20. <hi rend='sans'>Whithersoever the spirit was to go, they went,
thither was their spirit to go; and the wheels were lifted
up over against them: for the spirit of the living creature
was in the wheels.</hi>&mdash;The Spirit, or Power of God, is in all
His attributes and in all their operations.
</p>

<p>
1:21. <hi rend='sans'>When those went, these went; and when those
stood, these stood; and when those were lifted up from
the earth, the wheels were lifted up over against them;
for the spirit of the living creature was in the wheels.</hi>&mdash;In
whatever direction the Divine Spirit is to act, whether in
earthly things or among spirit beings, thither the operations
of the Spirit go in the cooperative action of all
God's attributes. When an age is finished and one attribute
ceases its action, they all cease.
</p>

<p>
1:22. <hi rend='sans'>And the likeness of the firmament upon the heads
of the living creature was as the colour of the terrible crystal,
stretched forth over their heads above.</hi>&mdash;The firmament
in the air or atmosphere (Gen. 1:20), and symbolizes the
powers of spiritual control. Above the attributes of God
and controlling their operations is the Divine will. The
expression of God's will during the time indicated by the
vision is the Christ, Head and Body. <q>All power in Heaven
and in earth</q> (Matt. 28:18) is given unto Christ, and will
<pb n='375'/><anchor id='Pg375'/>
be shared by His Bride and Joint-heir. (Rev. 20:4.) <q>The
terrible crystal</q>&mdash;literally <q>the reverential ice</q>&mdash;suggests
the reverence due to the ruling Christ Head and Body,
and their own reverential attitude towards the Father.
The color is that of ice, clear as crystal, pure, unmixed
<q>truth in the inward parts</q> (Psa. 51:6), characterizing
the new ruling powers in the spiritual phase of the Kingdom
of God.
</p>

<p>
1:23. <hi rend='sans'>And under the firmament were their wings
straight, the one toward the other: every one had two,
which covered on this side, and every one had two, which
covered on that side, their bodies.</hi>&mdash;Beneath, subject to the
direction of the Christ, Head and Church triumphant, are
the wings (Word of God&mdash;Rev. 12:14). Whenever Divine
Justice, Power, Love and Wisdom are in action, the Word
of God points straight up to the Father as the Source of
every good thing.
</p>

<p>
1:24. <hi rend='sans'>And when they went, I heard the noise of their
wings, like the noise of great waters, as the voice of the
Almighty, the voice of speech, as the noise of a host: when
they stood, they let down their wings.</hi>&mdash;The sound of the
Father's Word is as the voice of great waters (Rev. 1:15),
mighty truths, in <q>the voice of speech,</q> for the benefit of
His children. It is the voice of God, too, when spoken by
His people. When Divine Justice, Power, Love and Wisdom
operate upon human society, then the Word of God is
in full harmony therewith.
</p>

<p>
1:25. <hi rend='sans'>And there was a voice from the firmament that
was over their heads, when they stood, and had let down
their wings.</hi>&mdash;It is through the reigning Christ, Zion, that
the voice of Jehovah shall sound forth. <q>The Lord will
roar from Zion.</q> (Amos 1:2.) <q>Out of Zion shall go forth
the Law.</q> (Isa. 2:3.) Through The Christ sounds forth
the Word of God bespeaking to the world infinite Justice,
Power, Love and Wisdom.
</p>

<p>
1:26. <hi rend='sans'>And above the firmament that was over their
heads was the likeness of a throne, as the appearance of
a sapphire stone: and upon the likeness of the throne was
the likeness as the appearance of a Man above upon it.</hi>&mdash;<q>THE
HEAD OF CHRIST IS GOD.</q> (1 Cor. 11:3.) Above
the triumphant Christ, Head and Body, is the Throne of
Almighty God. <q>The Son [is] subject to Him that put all
things under Him.</q> (1 Cor. 15:28.) The Throne represents
the dominion of God. As the blue sapphire (symbolic
of faithfulness), so is the rulership of the Almighty. <q>God is
faithful.</q> (1 Cor. 1:9.) In the contemplation of the
watchers, the faithfulness, unchangeableness of God, is
seen shining through the Christ, the firmament, like the
<pb n='376'/><anchor id='Pg376'/>
soft blue of the sapphire stone. Man is in the image and
likeness of God. Reigning over all is One whom men can
understand, a Deity whose perfect Justice, Power, Love
and Wisdom elicit complete consecration. God is seen to
be not a ferocious demon, belying His own command of
love, but a just, reasonable, loving God, able to save all the
willing and obedient. Jesus, the friend of sinners, was
and is the perfect image of the Father.
</p>

<p>
1:27. <hi rend='sans'>And I saw as the colour of amber, as the appearance
of fire round about within it, from the appearance
of His loins even upward, and from the appearance of His
loins even downward, I saw as it were the appearance of
fire, and it had brightness round about.</hi>&mdash;<q>God dwelleth in
light whereto no man can approach.</q> (1 Tim. 6:16.)
Radiant is the Almighty with the golden glow of the
Divine nature. <q>Our God is a consuming fire</q> (Heb. 12:29);
only the perfect can stand in His presence; for all
dross, not refinable (Mal. 3:2, 3), is consumed by Justice.
The essence of the Divine Revelation is Love, the golden
light radiating in every direction from Our Father. <q>He
that loveth his brother abideth in the light</q> (1 John 2:10),
in the Divine love-light that surrounds the Throne and
pervades the entire spirit realm. This love is the light of
the world, to light men unto God.
</p>

<p>
1:28. <hi rend='sans'>As the appearance of the bow that is in the cloud
in the day of rain, so was the appearance of the brightness
round about. This was the appearance of the likeness
of the glory of the Lord. And when I saw it, I fell
upon my face, and I heard a voice of one that spake.</hi>&mdash;The
Throne and He that sat thereon were surrounded by
all the colors of the rainbow. (Rev. 4:3.) The love spirit
finds fruitage in character fruits. So the light of our
Father is divisible into the warm red of love, the glowing
blue of faithfulness, the brilliant green of immortality, the
royal purple of kingship, for those on any plane who are
worthy of that honor, etc.&mdash;the manifestation of every
good character fruit and every good purpose for the blessing
of all His creatures. (John 15:8; Gal. 5:22.) The
glory of God is not a display of blinding light to terrify
men; but it is to do good, to manifest to the uttermost His
character of love. When the watchman of the Laodicean
age discerned the Divine character and Plan he fell upon
his face (Rev. 1:17), in reverential worship and in complete
consecration to do the will of his Father in Heaven.
There sounded forth and through him, from the pages of
God's Word (Isa. 30:21), the voice of the Sublime One
who has been speaking to Christendom during this dawn
of the Golden Age.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='377'/><anchor id='Pg377'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 2&mdash;The Rebellious House And The Book</head>

<p>
2:1. <hi rend='sans'>And He said unto me, Son of man, stand upon thy
feet, and I will speak unto thee.</hi>&mdash;It is a mark of favor to
stand before a king. (Prov. 22:29.) Those who stand
before rulers receive commissions, are invested with authority
and power.
</p>

<p>
2:2. <hi rend='sans'>And the spirit entered into me when He spake
unto me, and set me upon my feet, that I heard Him that
spake unto me.</hi>&mdash;<q>The words which I speak, they are
spirit.</q> (John 6:63.) When the full import of the Word
was discerned, Pastor Russell took a firm stand. The
spirit, power, influence of God entered into him, never to
leave. He stood firmly, before God, before his friends, and
before all the hostile hosts of Mystic Babylon the Great.
</p>

<p>
2:3. <hi rend='sans'>And He said unto me, Son of man, I send thee to
the children of Israel, to a rebellious nation that hath
rebelled against Me; they and their fathers have transgressed
against Me, even unto this very day.</hi>&mdash;Pastor
Russell's work was largely among professing Christians&mdash;not
slum work, Christian work among the professedly non-Christians,
or a revivalistic work calling to repentance and
conversion. This was not the work appropriate to the
Harvest of the Christian Age. John the Baptist announced
the First Presence of Messiah, and began the harvesting
of Jewry, and was not sent to the heathen, but to the
Lord's people, the Jews, to acquaint them with the First
Advent, expose those withholding the keys of knowledge
(Luke 11:52), and warn of the impending destruction of
Jerusalem and Judea in A. D. 70 and 73. (Matt. 3:7;
24:2.) A like work was to be accomplished in Spiritual
Israel, Christendom, after the Lord's Second Advent in
1874. The man raised up, <q>set upon his feet,</q> and given
wisdom, grace and power for the task, was Pastor Russell.
</p>

<p>
2:4. <hi rend='sans'>For they are impudent children and stiff-hearted.
I do send thee unto them; and thou shalt say unto them,
Thus saith the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;Few things are more trying
than a family of impudent children. Forwardness in evil-doing
and evil-speaking was one of the characteristics of
the Hebrew people. They violated the Word of God and
justified the violation. (Matt. 15:5.) By impudent&mdash;hard
faced&mdash;tradition they made void the Word of God. The
<pb n='378'/><anchor id='Pg378'/>
effrontery of the <q>Christian</q> era has been unsurpassed.
Possessing greatest light, they have sinned most grievously.
The Word said, <q>He that is begotten of God sinneth not</q>
(1 John 3:9); yet John Tetzel was, and in some countries
Roman Catholic priests still are, selling indulgences to
commit sin. Professing <q>Christians</q> keep Christianity
out of their affairs with the phrase, <q>Business is business.</q>
</p>

<p>
2:5. <hi rend='sans'>And they, whether they will hear, or whether they
will forbear, (for they are a rebellious house,) yet shall
know that there hath been a Prophet among them.</hi>&mdash;The
work of Ezekiel among the Hebrews in captivity proved a
thankless task. He was rejected by both those in captivity
and those remaining at Jerusalem under Zedekiah.
His following was almost nothing. But he witnessed faithfully,
and no Hebrew could say that he had not been cautioned
of danger and warned of impending catastrophe.
Whether the clergy and people of Christendom wished to
heed Pastor Russell or not, they certainly heard his words.
(Z. '03-436.) His work was peculiarly prospered. Against
difficulties it grew and extended beyond the wildest dreams,
until it compassed the civilized world. In the face of the
united opposition of Protestant and Romanist clergy, the
steward of Almighty God accomplished the most gigantic
preaching work ever done by one man. <q>I cannot open
the morning paper without Pastor Russell staring me in
the face,</q> said a prominent minister. In the newspapers,
in the theatres, on the bill-boards, in billions of tract pages
distributed gratis, in millions of home libraries, in the
questions of inquiring church members, it was evident
everywhere that a great preacher was faithfully sounding
forth a trumpet message. With a voice of many waters,
reverberating like thunder throughout the world, spoke
Pastor Russell; and ere long <q>they shall know that there
hath been a Prophet [preacher] among them.</q>
</p>

<p>
2:6, 7. <hi rend='sans'>And thou, son of man, be not afraid of them,
neither be afraid of their words, though briers and thorns
be with thee, and thou dost dwell among scorpions; be
not afraid of their words, nor be dismayed at their looks
though they be a rebellious house. And thou shalt speak
My words, unto them, whether they will hear, or whether
they will forbear; for they are most rebellious.</hi>&mdash;Fearlessness
characterized Ezekiel and Pastor Russell, both outcasts
among the <q>best</q> people. Pastor Russell was thrust
by the church people into a wilderness condition, amid
the briers of opposition and reproach. Though the thorns
of persecution crowned his head, he was never afraid of
words nor of angry looks. (Jer. 1:8-10.) <q>I would rather
see him stoned to death,</q> said a Wilkes-Barre, Pa.
<pb n='379'/><anchor id='Pg379'/>
preacher, in answer to a kindly invitation to come and
hear Pastor Russell preach. <q>He ought to be skinned
alive, and his hide stretched on a door,</q> remarked a Chicago
<q>divine</q> to another <q>divine,</q> coming out from one
of Pastor Russell's addresses. A scorpion has a great
swelling, formidable looking head, but it stings with its
tail. (Rev. 9:5, 10.) Ecclesiasticism is made up of organizations
whose heads utter boastful, swelling words,
but which do injury through their followers. The sting
of a scorpion&mdash;of the followers of synods and popes&mdash;is
through poisoned words. Every great reformer has had
some turn on him who were very close to him. Not from
outside did Pastor Russell suffer most. A few from among
his own household, whom he had befriended, helped,
pushed, advanced, struck at him to ruin him and destroy
his influence and his work. It is characteristic of the
scorpion to sting and poison in the dark corners of a
man's own home. <q>Be not afraid, though thou dost dwell
among scorpions.</q>
</p>

<p>
2:8. <hi rend='sans'>But thou, son of man, hear what I say unto thee;
Be not thou rebellious like that rebellious house; open thy
mouth, and eat that I give thee.</hi>&mdash;The attitude of the rebellious
Christian was not that of God's chosen servant.
Never did he rebel against the Divine leading, nor seek
to pervert the Word of God. <q>My flesh is meat (food)
indeed.</q> (Jno. 6:55.) <q>Man shall not live by bread alone,
but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of
God.</q> (Matt. 4:4.) Whatever the word or message that
came from the Father's lips through the inspired pages of
the Bible, the Laodicean steward was to appropriate, assimilate.&mdash;Rev.
10:9.
</p>

<p>
2:9. <hi rend='sans'>And when I looked, behold, a hand was sent unto
me; and lo, a roll of a book was therein.</hi>&mdash;The Divine hand
sent from God is the Divine power, support, upholding
and advancing the interests of whatever is in the hand.
<q>The book therein</q> is the Divine Plan of the Ages, Present
Truth, especially as relating to the impending downfall
of Christendom in the end of this Age. Ancient books
were written on a continuous sheet, rolled up. The sheet
was often written on both sides. The writing outside
could be plainly read until covered by the rolling, but
that inside was entirely hidden from view. Present Truth,
the Divine Plan of the Ages, contains features which are
plain to any one who looks at them; such as those relating
to the earthly features of God's Plan&mdash;the evil in the
earth, the clashing interests of rich and poor, and various
other elements of the present order of things, the great
war, and the approach of a better order of things after
<pb n='380'/><anchor id='Pg380'/>
the present troubles are over. Present Truth, <q>the roll
of the book,</q> also contains hidden, deep truths, discernible
only to those who have the Holy Spirit. It possesses features
impossible for natural men, not anointed with the
Spirit, to perceive. <q>The natural man perceiveth not the
things of the Spirit, neither can he know them; for they
are spiritually discerned.</q> (1 Cor. 2:14.) Many thousands
of consecrated Christians are upheld, comforted and
rejoiced by the deep things of God, made clear for the
first time in centuries by the <q>roll of the book.</q>
</p>

<p>
2:10. <hi rend='sans'>And He spread it before me; and it was written
within and without; and there was written therein lamentations,
and mourning, and woe.</hi>&mdash;What an honor to be
the person before whom the Almighty would clearly spread
out His purposes,&mdash;the honor which came to Pastor Russell,
and with it a witness work of vast extent and responsibility!
The purpose of Present Truth is to inform the
Lord's people and the people of the world, as far as they
may listen, concerning the significance of the times. All
classes profit more or less from the warning of Pastor
Russell, as the message goes broadcast throughout the
world. It comes with a different significance to Church
and to world. To the Church it is a trumpet call of truth
(Rev. 10:2-7), to get ready quickly for deliverance,
resurrection glory, honor and immortality. To the world, the
worldly-minded, the Present Truth is something to be
dreaded. (Isa. 28:19.) This world, age, state of affairs,
is in process of destruction. The destroying agencies, as
portrayed in the Scriptures (1 Kings 19:11, 12; Z. '04-249;
Z. '98-207, 208) are world-wide war, then revolutions on an
unprecedented scale, and finally universal anarchy&mdash;savagery.
The significance of anarchy is appreciated by but
few. It means an utter absence of government, first the
paralysis, and ultimately the ceasing, of the governmental
functions which now afford protection, peace and safety to
property and life. As matters progress to the climax, as
disaster after disaster overtakes human effort, and disintegration
descends into the dissolution of law and order,
the whole earth will be <q>filled with violence</q>. (Gen. 6:11;
Micah 6:12); and men's hearts will utterly fail. (Luke
21:26.) Picture the worst revolutions ever known; this
trouble will outdo them all. Paint the darkest picture,
and none will be as black as the sable pall of this dreadful
night, this reign of terror already settling down upon mankind.
Truly, <q>mourning, lamentation and woe</q> were the
burden of God's Prophet Ezekiel, as he foresaw the destruction
of his beloved city, Jerusalem&mdash;and of Pastor Russell,
as he foreknew the desolation of a world!
</p>

</div>

<pb n='381'/><anchor id='Pg381'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 3&mdash;Pastor Russell's Divine Ordination</head>

<p>
3:1. <hi rend='sans'>Moreover He said unto me, Son of man, eat that
thou findest; eat this roll, and go speak unto the house
of Israel.</hi>&mdash;The Prophet was to find something. As Ezekiel
ate the book in the hand of God, so the <q>faithful and wise
servant</q> of this day absorbed, assimilated, the Plan of the
Ages which was in the power (hand) of the Almighty.
Pastor Russell searched diligently to find all that he could
of the purposes of God. As he understood, he was to go
speak to <q>the House of Sons</q> (Heb. 3:6), all the children,
sons of God&mdash;to nominal Spiritual Israelites.
</p>

<p>
3:2. <hi rend='sans'>So I opened my mouth, and He caused me to eat
that roll.</hi>&mdash;<q>I never knew any one so willing to do the will
of God,</q> said the private secretary and traveling companion
of Pastor Russell. He was eager to learn all he
could about the Heavenly Father's will. It was not of
himself that he learned and taught the Divine Plan; but
God Himself caused him to learn, believe and teach.
</p>

<p>
3:3. <hi rend='sans'>And He said unto me, Son of man, cause thy belly
to eat, and fill thy bowels with this roll that I give thee.
Then did I eat it; and it was in my mouth as honey for
sweetness.</hi>&mdash;No mere casual scanning of Present Truth
would suffice. The man of God was to be filled with the
great Message. (Rev. 10:9, 10.) <q>The sweetest story ever
told</q> (Psa. 19:10; 119:103) brought inexpressible peace.
It sweetened the experiences of a life of sacrifice. Whoever
eats, assimilates Present Truth, finds every heart
question answered, every doubt silenced. He learns <q>the
peace of God that passeth understanding</q> (Phil. 4:7), and
a sweetness as of honey in the promises, plans, and purposes
of the Father of Love.
</p>

<p>
3:4. <hi rend='sans'>And He said unto me, Son of man, go, get thee unto
the house of Israel, and speak with My words unto them.</hi>&mdash;From
apostolic days to today all to whom the Spirit gives
utterance begin to speak (Acts 2:1-18) because constrained
to do so, because they <q>love to tell the story.</q> To Ezekiel,
and to the greatest preacher of modern times, came a
readiness of speech, when Jehovah Himself gave them His
Spirit, and commanded to <q>get thee unto the house of
Israel, and speak with My words unto them.</q>
</p>

<pb n='382'/><anchor id='Pg382'/>

<p>
3:5. <hi rend='sans'>For thou art not sent to a people of a strange
speech and of a hard language, but to the house of Israel.</hi>&mdash;Present
Truth was not to go to the heathen, the drunkards,
unbelievers, but to the Christian people of the world, the
spiritual House of Israel.
</p>

<p>
3:6. <hi rend='sans'>Not to many people of a strange speech and of a
hard language, whose words thou canst not understand.
Surely, had I sent thee to them, they would have hearkened
unto thee.</hi>&mdash;If the Message of Present Truth had been
sent to the heathen with its glad tidings for all, they
would have turned from devil worship, to worship the
true God. (Matt. 11:21, 23.) On two occasions the
trumpet sound was heard by <q>people of a strange speech
and of a hard language.</q> Pastor Russell passed through
Japan and India on a round-the-world tour. In Japan the
people requested that he stay. It was the message they
had longed for. In India the natives heard him gladly. In
eastern and southern Africa a believer in Present Truth
found his way from Nyassa to the Cape, and many thousands
of natives embraced the Truth and were baptised.
</p>

<p>
3:7. <hi rend='sans'>But the house of Israel will not hearken unto thee;
for they will not hearken unto me; for all the house of
Israel are impudent and hardhearted.</hi>&mdash;Christendom has
never hearkened unto God. They hear and do not. (Jas.
1:22.) They are forgetful hearers of the Word. (Jas.
1:25.) They know their Master's will and do it not. (Luke
12:47.) Because they hear not God, they heed not the
Word of God when brought to them by His servants.
</p>

<p>
3:8. <hi rend='sans'>Behold, I have made thy face strong against their
faces, and thy forehead strong against their foreheads.</hi>&mdash;Whatever
situation Pastor Russell faced, God made him
more than equal to it. This last and most illustrious of
the reformers never asked for money; yet he had enough
entrusted to him to carry on the work. Champions of
Christendom met him on the debating platform; each encounter
widened and strengthened the witness for Present
Truth. He faced the modern enemies of Reformation with
books by tens of millions, and they were unable to combat
their power. <q>To read the <hi rend='italic'>Studies in the Scriptures</hi>,</q> admonished
a Southern preacher to his flock, <q>is to believe
them.</q> No argument could be devised to stem the flood
of Truth, only a ban on the reading of the books. In
innumerable places priestcraft caused the public burning
of the books. Practically every home in America, England,
Germany, Sweden, Australia, and other Protestant
countries was reached by a deluge of free tracts. Such a
tracting of the world with billions of pages, was never
known. The enemies of Truth were wholly unable to
<pb n='383'/><anchor id='Pg383'/>
check the spread of knowledge. A further situation faced
was the production of the free Photo-Drama of Creation,
seen and heard by twelve millions. No answer could be
put forth by clerical foes of truth, but baseless, cruel libels
on the private life of one of God's noblemen. Audiences
by the thousands listened to Bible lectures by Pastor Russell
and by hundreds of public speakers, and their voice
is still heard all over the world. Stinging assaults of slander
were ignored by a man of destiny, who had too much
of God's work to do to pay attention to the yelpings of
little men&mdash;of the D. D.'s of Christendom (Isa. 56:10), who
love slumber, but who snarl and bite when disturbed in
their dreams of <q>peace, peace</q> (Jer. 6:14), social and
civic gospels, church unity, and evangelistic raids on the
pockets of the masses. Not a situation or a person but
was faced victoriously.&mdash;Isa. 54:17.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url="images/img397.png" rend="width: 60%">
    <head>Pastor Russell in the Critics' Den</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
3:9. <hi rend='sans'>As an adamant harder than flint have I made thy
forehead; fear them not, neither be dismayed at their
looks, though they be a rebellious house.</hi>&mdash;The forehead is
symbolic of wisdom. A man of high forehead, as was
Pastor Russell, is of a high type of intellect. Pastor Russell's
mind was made strong against opponents of the
Reform which is ushering in the everlasting Kingdom of
Messiah. It is impossible for error to withstand truth.
(Luke 21:15.) As in apostolic days, believers in Present
Truth call themselves <q>in the Truth</q> (2 Pet. 1:12), the
teachings of the Word of God are termed <q>the Truth</q> (1
John 3:19), and those who believe them are known as
<q>Truth people.</q> (3 John 4.) The mind of Pastor Russell
was filled with Truth. Crystal clear, with hard, irresistible
logic, the Present Truth, which constituted his wisdom and
understanding, was the hardest proposition ecclesiasticism
ever encountered. (Isa. 50:7.) The mind of God's steward
was as adamant. Adamant is literally, in Hebrew, <q>a diamond
point.</q> With diamond hardness (Rev. 4:3), the
Present Truth cuts its way through all opposition, though
the opposing thought be hard as flint. The diamond is
the most crystal clear of stones, and represents the truth
in irresistible form. It is futile to oppose the mind of
any Present Truth believer, for truth is irrefutable. To
those who have it, it imparts the mind of an intellectual
giant&mdash;the mind of Christ, of God. (1 Cor. 2:16.) Their
foreheads are made as diamond. In the light of the sun
the diamond sparkles with indescribable beauty. It breaks
the sunlight up into its component parts and reflects and
refracts in prismatic flashes of rainbow colors. The sun
is the Gospel of Divine Love and its embodiment, Jesus
Christ. The component parts of Christian love are the
<pb n='384'/><anchor id='Pg384'/>
character fruits. <q>The fruit of the spirit is love, joy, peace,
long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance.</q>
(Galatians 5:22-3.) The minds, wisdom, characters
of God's true people are full of manifestations of
the shining upon them of the glorious Gospel of the Son
of Righteousness&mdash;full of the beauty of righteousness. The
minds of God's saints are made as the diamond in its
excelling hardness and sunlit radiance.
</p>

<p>
3:10. <hi rend='sans'>Moreover He said unto me, Son of man, all My
words that I shall speak unto thee receive in thine heart
and hear with thine ears.</hi>&mdash;Like Ezekiel, Pastor Russell
was to hold back, pervert, or wrest <emph>nothing</emph>.
</p>

<p>
3:11. <hi rend='sans'>And go, get thee to them of the captivity, unto
the children of thy people, and speak unto them, and tell
them, Thus saith the Lord God; whether they will hear, or
whether they will forbear.</hi>&mdash;It was to be a message for the
Lord's people in captivity to the king of this world. Satan,
bound in Mystic Babylon the Great, the governmental-ecclesiastical-commercial
system of Christendom.
</p>

<p>
3:12. <hi rend='sans'>Then the Spirit took me up, and I heard behind me
a voice of a great rushing, saying, Blessed be the glory of
the Lord from His place.</hi>&mdash;Through the begetting of the
Holy Spirit we are raised up to walk in newness of life
(Rom. 6:4), to sit with Christ in heavenly places (Eph.
2:6), in the Spirit-begotten condition. The Spirit raised
Pastor Russell up to an understanding and appreciation of
Heavenly things. (Matt. 3:16.) At Pentecost the place
where the Apostles were sitting was filled with a rushing
sound as of a mighty wind, and they received the Holy
Spirit (Acts 2:2.) The mighty rushing sound represented
Pastor Russell's receiving a rich endowment of the
Spirit of God, to whose leadings he was fully consecrated
and to whose influence and guidance he wholly devoted
his life. The words of Christ and of God are contained
in the Bible, written thousands of years ago, behind in the
stream of time. It was in the Word of God, behind him in
time (Isa. 30:21), that Pastor Russell perceived the rushing
sound, the utterances of the Holy Spirit. The message
of the Bible has been perverted by Catholic and Protestant
misunderstandings into anything but a glorious and blessed
Gospel. It is a thing to be dreaded, if the glory of God
is to eternally torment the vast majority of humans. But
the Message of Truth sounded forth by Pastor Russell
declares the grace of the Gospel which is to reach every
man, woman and child (1 Tim. 2:6) with its blessed influence,
power, wisdom and love, so that all creation in
due time may join in a mighty paeon of praise. <q>Blessed be
the glory of Jehovah from His place.</q>&mdash;Psa. 106:48.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url="images/img398.png" rend="width: 80%">
    <head>The Clergy Would Censor The Bible</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<pb n='385'/><anchor id='Pg385'/>

<p>
3:13. <hi rend='sans'>I heard also the noise of the wings of the living
creatures that touched one another, and the noise of the
wheels over against them, and a noise of a great rushing.</hi>&mdash;Many
Christian ministers have had glimpses of the Word
of God, knowledge of some details of the Plan, some measure
of the Holy Spirit; but to Pastor Russell, God's messenger
to the last stage of the Church, was given a superabundance
of gifts, to set the things of God in order (Isa.
44:7), to proclaim an harmonious understanding of all the
Divine purposes for mankind and of some for the angels.
(Eph. 3:10.) He heard the full harmony of <q>the song of
Moses and the Lamb.</q> (Rev. 15:3.) To him the wings
(Rev. 12:14), the Word of God, Old Testament and New,
sounded their Glad Tidings, a message whose parts
<q>touched one another,</q> were in complete touch, full harmony.
He heard for the first time since Apostolic days
the Plan of God, <q>the noise of the wheels [cycles, ages].</q>
He heard the manifestations of the operation of the Holy
Spirit, the <q>noise of a great rushing,</q> and was filled with
the Spirit in a measure beyond the portion of most Christian
men. His patience with the stupid and erring was
godlike and his love-lit face was an inspiration.
</p>

<p>
3:14. <hi rend='sans'>So the Spirit lifted me up, and took me away;
and I went in bitterness, in the heat of my spirit; but the
hand of the Lord was strong upon me.</hi>&mdash;<q>God hath taken
you out of the world</q> (John 17:16); raised <q>to sit with
Christ in Heavenly places.</q> (Eph. 2:6.) The Spirit took
Pastor Russell away from earthly aims and raised him up
to the plane of sacrificing priesthood. He turned from
commercial pursuits to devote his life to the Heavenly
Message. He tasted the bitter herbs of persecution, of suffering
with Christ; and amid ostracism and persecution he
lived the life of Christian service. He carried on his
work in fervency of spirit; for the power of God was
upon him, strengthening him with might in the inner man
(Eph. 3:16), and with wisdom to deliver, in the face of
the determined opposition of priestcraft, the trumpet message
announcing the Presence of Christ&mdash;the sound of the
Seventh Trumpet, the trump of God.&mdash;Rev. 10:7.
</p>

<p>
3:15. <hi rend='sans'>Then I came to them of the captivity at Tel-abib,
that dwelt by the river of Chebar, and I sat where they
sat and remained there astonished among them seven
days.</hi>&mdash;Future historians will record, as most remarkable,
the mental, moral and spiritual bondage in which professing
Christians were held during the Gospel Age, through
the machinations of priestcraft, under the king of the
age, Satan himself. Pastor Russell came with his message,
in a day of supposed enlightenment, to a people
<pb n='386'/><anchor id='Pg386'/>
bound hand and foot. Tel-abib in Hebrew is <q>Hill of
Grass</q> (from <q>Tel,</q> hill, and <q>Abib,</q> sprouting, budding).
Abib was another name for Nisan, the first month of the
Hebrew sacred year, corresponding to April. In type or
symbol a place represents a condition, or a stage in historic
development. The <q>hill of budding,</q> the beginning
of the sacred year, symbolizes the dawn of the Times of
Restitution, the <q>Millennial Dawn.</q> The Millennium (Rev.
20:3, 4, 7) began in 1874, with the Return of Christ. It
was at about that time that Pastor Russell came to his
fellow-Christians with the beginning of a better understanding
of the Bible, <q>the vision of God.</q> It was, as it
were, the budding-time of the good promises of God for
the blessing of all peoples. The Christian people lived on
and by the stream of commercial, social and economic intercourse
that feeds and supports Christendom, Babylon.
</p>

<p>
3:16. <hi rend='sans'>And it came to pass at the end of seven days, that
the Word of the Lord came unto me, saying.</hi>&mdash;In a time
prophecy a day in the prophecy usually signifies a year in
fulfillment. For seven years after Christ's Return in 1874&mdash;until
1881&mdash;Pastor Russell, although he knew much of
God's Plan, was in some degree in the same condition as
other Christians in imperfect understanding of God's Word.
In 1881 a former associate, Mr. Barbour, of Rochester,
N. Y., who had been a faithful fellow-watcher, developed
into the <q>Evil servant</q> of Matt. 24:48-61 and Zechariah
11:17, and produced a work on the Hebrew Tabernacle
types in opposition to the fundamentals of true Christianity.
Pastor Russell desired the truth on the subject.
He gave himself up to prayer and study of this matter
alone. For days he struggled with the problem and
wrestled with God in supplication. At length the matter
cleared up. He then wrote <q><hi rend='italic'>Tabernacle Shadows of the
Better Sacrifices</hi>.</q> of which 1,500,000 copies have since
aided Christians to understand the deeper things of the
Word and to make complete consecration unto death. This
was in 1881, at which time he also published <q><hi rend='italic'>Food for
Thinking Christians</hi>,</q> a work embodying much afterwards
expanded into the six volumes of <q><hi rend='italic'>Studies in the Scriptures</hi>.</q>
The same year, 1881, is prophetically marked at
the time for the final withdrawal of favor from the
churches, a favor which had begun to be withdrawn in
1878&mdash;the year in which the clergy were cast off as
representatives of the Divine Word, and when Pastor Russell
began his work by the publication of 50,000 copies of <q><hi rend='italic'>Object
and Manner of the Lord's Return</hi>.</q> In 1873 the
stewardship of the things of God, the teaching of Bible
truths, was taken from the clergy, unfaithful to their age-long
<pb n='387'/><anchor id='Pg387'/>
stewardship, and given to Pastor Russell. In the
interim, until 1881, the new steward was setting the things
in order, getting the truths of the Bible in logical and
Scriptural form for presentation, until the last great item
of the Hebrew Tabernacle types, was ready. Then, in
1881, he became God's watchman for all Christendom, and
began his gigantic work of witness.
</p>

<p>
3:17. <hi rend='sans'>Son of man, I have made thee a watchman unto
the house of Israel; therefore hear the word at My mouth,
and give them warning from Me.</hi>&mdash;The function of watchmanship
was not given until 1881. (Jer. 6:17; Isa. 21:6-12.)
Faithfulness in individual watching during a trial
period of seven years was rewarded by the bestowal of the
office of the greatest servant whom the Church of God
has had since the Apostle Paul. <q>Whosoever will be chief
among you let him be your servant.</q> (Matt. 20:27.) Pastor
Russell at all times served the Church in great things
and small. No request was too insignificant to get his
careful attention. Rich and poor alike were faithfully
served in every possible way. This work prior to 1881
was a great work for any ordinary man, but insignificant
compared with what was to follow. By 1884 the watchman's
work had grown to such proportions as to cause the
founding of <hi rend='smallcaps'>The Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society</hi>.
This is the agency through which God's appointed watchman
has delivered his message to Christendom. Pastor
Russell paid no attention to the words or opinions of man,
however learned or pious, whether men of modern days
or the <q>early fathers</q> of post-apostolic times. He listened
to the word direct from the mouth of God, spoken by holy
men of old as moved by the Holy Spirit. (2 Peter 1:21.)
Ezekiel was raised up shortly before the destruction of
Jerusalem to warn the Hebrews of the impending calamity.
Pastor Russell's warning to Christendom, coming direct
from God, has been of the imminent collapse of the
present <q>Christian</q> civilization in a welter of war,
revolution and anarchy, to be succeeded by the early
establishment of the Kingdom of God. In all his warnings he
claimed no originality. He said that he could never have
written his books himself. It all came from God, through
the enlightenment of the Holy Spirit.
</p>

<p>
3:18. <hi rend='sans'>When I say unto the wicked, Thou shalt surely
die; and thou givest him not warning, nor speakest to warn
the wicked from his wicked way, to save his life; the
same wicked man shall die in his iniquity; but his blood
will I require at thine hand.</hi>&mdash;Pastor Russell saw and revived
the teaching of the Word of God that death is death.
<q>All have sinned.</q> (Rom. 3:23.) <q>Death passed upon all.</q>
<pb n='388'/><anchor id='Pg388'/>
(Romans 5:12.) <q>The wages of sin is death.</q> (Rom. 6:23.)
<q>There is none righteous.</q> (Rom. 3:10.) <q>The dead sleep
in the dust.</q> (Isa. 26:19.) <q>Their thoughts perish.</q> (Psa.
146:4.) He taught clearly the Word of God first enunciated
to Adam, <q>Thou shalt surely die.</q> (Gen. 2:17.) Man is
not inherently immortal. At death he is dead, unconscious,
asleep until the resurrection, not <q>more alive than ever,</q>
as taught by a blinded and apostate priestcraft. Man, soul
and body, is not a being whom God cannot destroy. <q>Fear
Him who is able to destroy both soul and body.</q> (Matt.
10:28.) To all erring mankind Pastor Russell was directed
by God to reiterate the Divine penalty for sin, as
death, and not eternal torment. This was a fundamental
part of the message both of Ezekiel and of Pastor Russell.
</p>

<p>
3:19. <hi rend='sans'>Yet if thou warn the wicked, and he turn not
from his wickedness, nor from his wicked way, he shall
die in his iniquity; but thou hast delivered thy soul.</hi>&mdash;Pastor
Russell faithfully warned the wicked. He published
a complete exposition of the Bible statements regarding
the Adamic death&mdash;3,000,000 copies of a pamphlet,
<q>What Say the Scriptures About Hell,</q> quoting all Bible
passages mentioning Sheol and Hades, the death state.
He scarcely ever spoke in public without dwelling on this
cardinal tenet, that the dead are dead. To the very best
of his ability he taught Christendom the truth. By faithful
testimony he delivered himself from liability.
</p>

<p>
3:20, 21. <hi rend='sans'>Again, When a righteous man doth turn from
his righteousness, and commit iniquity, and I lay a stumblingblock
before him, he shall die: because thou hast not
given him warning, he shall die in his sin, and his righteousness
which he hath done shall not be remembered;
but his blood will I require at thine hand. Nevertheless, if
thou warn the righteous man, that the righteous sin not,
and he doth not sin, he shall surely live, because he is
warned; also thou hast delivered thy soul.</hi>&mdash;Another cardinal
teaching of God's Word, clearly taught by Pastor
Russell, is the nature of the eternal punishment to be
visited upon the incorrigible backslider. Clergy, bishops
and popes have taught for centuries on this subject an
irrational combination of extreme symbolism with gross
literalism, as suited their ambition to exercise worldly
power and hold the masses in subjection&mdash;minds, bodies
and pocketbooks. They have interpreted one symbolism
symbolically and the next literally. They have said that
the <q>Lake of Fire</q> and the <q>torment</q> are literal, but that
the <q>beast</q> and the <q>false prophet</q> are symbolic (Rev.
19:20), even though it involved the absurdity of a symbolic
beast going into a literal lake of fire! Blind and deaf to
<pb n='389'/><anchor id='Pg389'/>
those who have pointed out the unreasonableness of such
foolishness, they have turned savagely upon those that
have the Truth. In eighteen centuries they have killed
fifty million adherents of Christ, and persecuted innumerable
others. It is impossible to compute the number that
they will do to death in this, the close of the Gospel-Age
Harvest, when governmental protection shall be withdrawn
from lovers of truth, except that, this time, they
will get <emph>all</emph> such!
</p>

<p>
An important feature of Pastor Russell's teaching is that
the Scriptural punishment of the incorrigibly wicked is not
life in torment but oblivion, annihilation, the <q>second
death</q> (Rev. 21:8); that every one is, either in this life or
after the resurrection, to be brought to a full knowledge of
the Truth (1 Tim. 2:4); to receive some measure of the Holy
Spirit; that those who incur the extreme penalty for sin
will be only those who backslide beyond recovery. In full
conformity with Ezekiel's prophecy Pastor Russell taught
that <q>when a righteous man doth commit iniquity, he shall
die</q>&mdash;the Second Death.
</p>

<p>
3:22. <hi rend='sans'>And the hand of the Lord was there upon me; and
He said unto me, Arise, go forth into the plain, and I will
there talk with thee.</hi>&mdash;Ezekiel was impelled by the Holy
Spirit to depart from the river Chebar with its teeming
activities. Pastor Russell's consecration led him to separate
himself from commercial activities and to give his
life to the service of God. The hand of the Lord was upon
him to do this. The Lord's people, the Hebrews, mingled
with the Chaldeans, living in the plain&mdash;literally <q>vale</q> or
<q>valley.</q> Pastor Russell turned from ordinary avocations
to all the people dwelling in the Valley of the Shadow of
Death (Psa. 23:4); and in that condition God communed
with His true Watchman. Pastor Russell has been known
to pass entire nights in prayer, and go about his work the
next day as though nothing unusual had taken place.&mdash;Rev.
3:14.
</p>

<p>
3:23. <hi rend='sans'>Then I arose, and went forth into the plain; and,
behold, the glory of the Lord stood there, as the glory
which I saw by the river of Chebar: and I fell on my face.</hi>&mdash;Continually
the vision was before Pastor Russell of the
character, plan and work of the Almighty. Daily he renewed
his covenant of consecration and daily sought to
carry it out.
</p>

<p>
3:24. <hi rend='sans'>Then the Spirit entered into me, and set me upon
my feet, and spake with me, and said unto me, Go, shut
thyself within thine house.</hi>&mdash;A thought possesses propulsive
power, and must result in action unless hindered
by an opposing thought. The Spirit, thoughts, words of
<pb n='390'/><anchor id='Pg390'/>
God were continually entering, from the Bible, into Pastor
Russell's mind and setting him into action. All who have
set themselves apart to do the will of God and have received
the Holy Spirit, are members of Christ, in the
House of Sons (Heb. 3:6), the Royal Priesthood. In the
consecration of the typical priesthood, the priest shut himself
in the Tabernacle for seven days. (Lev. 8:33.)
(Seven symbolizes completeness.) So Christ and those in
Him abide continually in the antitypical Holy, the spirit-begotten
condition. Pastor Russell lived in the Spirit from
his consecration to his death.
</p>

<p>
3:25. <hi rend='sans'>But thou, O son of man, behold, they shall put
bands upon thee, and shall bind thee with them, and thou
shalt not go out among them.</hi>&mdash;Each forward step in any
branch of knowledge renders institutions based on past
partial knowledge functionless; and consequently the adherents
and beneficiaries of such institutions oppose the
march of events. The clergy, trying to stem the tide of
Truth, to uphold an effete ecclesiasticism tottering to its
fall, put every restraint upon the influence of Pastor Russell;
but the bands upon him served also to bind the tares
more tightly into the organization bundles. (Matt. 13:30.)
In fulfillment of the prophetic parable the bundles are to
be destroyed in the anarchy about to ensue. Church members
have been urged to get rid of every scrap of paper
bearing the Message of Present Truth; the Truth has been
preached against in practically every church in the English,
German and Swedish speaking world; people have
been warned against reading the Truth; Truth people have
been discharged or refused employment; in Europe they
have been imprisoned at hard labor; some have been done
to death by firing squads; they have been forbidden to
hold meetings. Neither Pastor Russell nor his fellow-believers
were permitted to utter the Bible Truth before
the congregations of ecclesiasticism. It was not to go out
among <q>them,</q> and his greatest work was the deepening
of the spirit of consecration among those of the <q>House
of Sons.</q>
</p>

<p>
3:26. <hi rend='sans'>And I will make thy tongue cleave to the roof of
thy mouth, that thou shalt be dumb, and shalt not be to
them a reprover; for they are a rebellious house.</hi>&mdash;It is
impossible to witness spiritual things to the carnally-minded
(1 Cor. 3:1; John 16:12). But Pastor Russell
never refrained from speaking or publishing the Word of
God. The Bible teaches that the service of God must be
of a willing heart. It is a privilege which may be accepted
or rejected, as the hearer desires. Yet to the worldly,
Pastor Russell was as <q>dumb</q>, for they would not hear.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='391'/><anchor id='Pg391'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 4&mdash;The Papal And Protestant Sieges</head>

<p>
4:1. <hi rend='sans'>Thou also, son of man, take thee a tile, and lay it
before thee, and portray upon it the city, even Jerusalem.</hi>&mdash;In
Ezekiel's days, in Chaldea, a book was a collection
of inscribed tiles. The Laodicean servant was to be a
writer of books. In many articles and chapters on the
kingdoms of this world and their judgment and fall, and
that of their ecclesiastical, political and business systems,
Pastor Russell portrays Christendom, typically spoken of
as Jerusalem. It bore the Lord's name, but was defiled by
the evil practices of its inhabitants. (C. 295.) As a type,
Jerusalem represents particularly the ecclesiastical phase
of Christendom.
</p>

<p>
4:2. <hi rend='sans'>And lay siege against it, and build a fort against it,
and cast a mount against it, set the camp also against
it, and set battering rams against it round about.</hi>&mdash;Ecclesiasticism
was to experience prolonged siege by a class
symbolized by Ezekiel. The siege was to be conducted by
Truth, encompassing the stronghold of the nominal city
of God. Beleaguered ecclesiasticism was to go through
experiences like that of a besieged city shut off from its
province, shorn of its actual dominion, while nominally
retaining it, cut off from the supplies that had flowed from
the tributary peoples. In addition to the slow weakening
of a close besiegement, it was to withstand occasional assaults,
make sorties and go through a period of warfare,
with only one possible end, the utter destruction of the
city. The besieged city was surrounded on every side with
a line of military works, trenches, palisades and forts,
collectively called a fort; from which, especially from the
principal center of offense, it was continually harassed by
wearing-down activities and assaulted by surprise attacks.
So ecclesiasticism was to be surrounded and placed on
the defensive, by strongly entrenched and fortified enemies.
<q>God is our fortress.</q> (2 Sam. 22:2.) It was to be done
by a class of progressive and liberty-loving Christians in
revolt against and attack upon the intolerance, superstition,
and tyranny of priestcraft.
</p>

<p>
Ancient cities were surrounded by high walls, with frequent
towers for watchmen, spearmen, bowmen and
slingmen. The walls, in emergencies, were lined with such
<pb n='392'/><anchor id='Pg392'/>
fighters and with throwers of boulders and firebrands. The
attack was made upon a weak point in the wall; and an
earthen mound or mounds was cast up to furnish an
elevation from which to equalize for the besiegers the
advantages of the defenders. The walls of ecclesiasticism
are its defense of creeds and of formalism and, not least
of all, of the civil powers and the men who stand as a
bulwark against attack. A <q>mount</q> symbolizes a government.
(Dan. 2:44, 45.) The nation (mount) was organized,
militant Protestantism. The camp is the temporary
abiding place of those who are fighting on the Lord's side.
(Heb. 13:13.) A battering ram was a device for battering
down the wall of a city to make a breach for the attack
of the soldiery. Ecclesiasticism has surrounded itself with
walls of living stones, soldiers, police and other officers of
the civil powers who protect the churches and church
people (Isa. 59:10), educators to build up belief in ecclesiasticism,
writers to write articles and books, and a host
of other adherents and supporters. In the siege of ecclesiasticism
the Lord's yeomen have attacked aggressively
with books, newspapers, missionaries, lectures and education;
seeking to loosen and dislodge some of the living
stones surrounding organized error.&mdash;Jer. 6:6.
</p>

<p>
4:3. <hi rend='sans'>Moreover take thou unto thee an iron pan, and set
it for a wall of iron between thee and the city; and set thy
face against it, and it shall be besieged, and thou shalt lay
siege against it. This shall be a sign to the house of Israel.</hi>&mdash;An
iron pan, literally a <q>thin plate,</q> was between besieging
Protestantism and beleaguered ecclesiasticism.
<q>They were holpen with a little help</q> (Dan. 11:34). The
civil powers were to stand as a wall of iron protecting the
Lord's people from the persecuting power of ruling priestcraft.
No breaches could be made in the wall. It was a
<q>wall of iron.</q> <q>No evil shall befall thee.</q> (Psa. 91:10.)
<q>Greater is He that is for thee than all these that be
against thee.</q> (2 Kings 6:16.) Iron, as in the iron claws
and teeth of the beast of Daniel, symbolizes the agencies
of an irresistible power. Turning the face toward or
against anything was a mark of favor or of disfavor. (Psa.
104:29.) The Lord's people were resolutely to disfavor
established ecclesiasticism and to besiege it from the
Reformation to the close of the Harvest. When Ezekiel
sees another doing something it usually signifies another
than Pastor Russell doing it, but may signify Pastor Russell
seeing himself, or the Ezekiel class. The Ezekiel
prophecy types and symbolizes Pastor Russell or the Reformer
class seeing Pastor Russell or the Reformer class
or some member of that class doing the thing typed or
<pb n='393'/><anchor id='Pg393'/>
symbolized. Here, the Protestant class from the Protestant
Reformation down through the Harvest period, is seen
systematically and effectually besieging established ecclesiasticism.
The house of Israel ordinarily meant the Hebrew
nation, the nominal fleshly house of Israel. The Hebrews
were divided into the ten tribes (Israel), thoroughly infected
with Pagan beliefs and practices, and the two tribes
(Judah), holding more closely to Jehovah. In antitype,
when both Israel and Judah are mentioned, and the
prophecy is intended for an antitypical fulfillment, Israel
signifies the Papacy and Judah signifies established
Protestantism. Here the sign was to be the whole nominal
house of Israel&mdash;all professing Christians, Catholics and
Protestants.&mdash;Z. '05-179.
</p>

<p>
4:4. <hi rend='sans'>Lie thou also upon thy left side, and lay the iniquity
of the house of Israel upon it: according to the number of
the days that thou shalt lie upon it thou shalt bear their
iniquity.</hi>&mdash;In verses 4 to 6 Israel and Judah are included
in the same picture, and signify Papacy and established,
corrupted Protestantism. The left side was a sign of less
favor. Romanism kept on in sin and kept adding, multiplying
evil deeds, until iniquity should come to the full (Gen.
15:16). A day in prophecy signifies a year in fulfillment.
(Num. 14:34.) Ezekiel here represents the reformer class
which had to endure the iniquities of Papacy, both by persecution
and by the shame of seeing professed Christians
believing grossest error. The iniquity of Papacy, the house
of Israel, lay in the fact that the Reformers had shown
them insistent proofs of their wrong course, and yet they
continued in their own way, heedless of the Divine warnings.
Hence less favor has been felt by Jehovah toward
them than toward Protestantism.
</p>

<p>
4:5. <hi rend='sans'>For I have laid upon thee the years of their
iniquity, according to the number of the days, three hundred
and ninety days; so shalt thou bear the iniquity of
the house of Israel.</hi>&mdash;Upon the reform element was laid
the burden of seeing the dupes of Papal priestcraft continually
learning and living error. This was a burden upon
conscience, and was repugnant to the enlightened mind
of the reform element, known for centuries, in name at
least, as Protestant. Priestcraft of the larger division of
Christendom was to be under attack for 390 years, during
which time the besieging element, the reformers, were to
be protected from Papacy by the <q>iron wall</q> of the civil
powers. This began in 1528 and ends in 1918. The year
1528 is one of the turning points of history. Protestantism
in England and in Germany was in the balance. The sudden
rise of Charles V of Germany to great power had
<pb n='394'/><anchor id='Pg394'/>
emboldened Pope Clement to side with Charles. He induced
the Emperor to support a measure designed to limit
the spread of Protestantism, to be followed by its utter
destruction. Under the proposed law no Protestant was
to convert a Romanist to the reformed faith, nor would
it be allowable for Protestantism to spread to other countries.
It meant for all Protestants an end such as the
Huguenots came to in France, the suppression of the
Renaissance with its <q>increase of knowledge</q> (Dan. 12:4),
and the end of the prosperous and comparatively enlightened
civilization of modern times. The future of the whole
world, and of the Divine Plan, was at stake! A general
war was barely avoided to destroy Lutheranism. Philip
Landgrave of Saxony discovered the plot, took arms, and
in 1528 forced indemnity from a Catholic bishop. Other
princes of Germany stood with Philip.
</p>

<p>
To quote from Dr. Peter Bayne, LL. D., the historian
(<q>Martin Luther</q>), page 486: <q>These (the princes of
the reformed faith) were inflexibly determined that the
decree of the majority should not be assented to. Philip
of Hesse, John of Saxony, Markgraf George the Pious of
Brandenburg-Anspach, the Dukes of Lunenburg and Brunswick,
the Prince of Anhalt, and the representatives of
Strasburg, Nurnberg and twelve other free cities, entered
a solemn protest against the prospective revolution. They
were called <hi rend='italic'>Protestants</hi>! All, to this hour, who claim that
Truth shall be unveiled, and that no Pope, or Kaiser, shall
congeal the ever-advancing stream of progress and improvement,
may take an honorable pride in tracing their
spiritual descent to the intrepid Philip and the magnanimous
and simple-hearted John.</q> (p. 481): <q>How thoroughly
is the whole pageant of that war, 1528, erased from
the memory of the present generation! And yet the effect
of those events is not yet exhausted; nor would it be
possible for any one without forming some comprehension
of them, to understand how link added itself to link in
the evolutionary chain of modern history.</q>
</p>

<p>
Thus Germany set up the iron wall of civic defense
between the besieging Protestants and beleaguered Papacy.
In England, too, the other great empire which has stood
as an iron wall between the reform element and Papacy,
the break with Rome began to take form in 1528. This
was the year when Pope Clement appointed his legates,
Correggio and Wolsey, to conduct the divorce trial of
Queen Katherine of Aragon, at the behest of Henry VIII.
(Rev. 8:8, 9.) As God raised up a willful, stubborn
Pharaoh when He purposed to deliver the Hebrews from
Egypt, so He raised up the lustful Henry VIII as the agent
<pb n='395'/><anchor id='Pg395'/>
through whom the break should come between England
and Rome. <q>The natural result</q> [of Henry's divorce proceedings],
says A. F. Pollard, the historian, in his <q>Henry
VIII,</q> <q>was the separation of England from Rome.</q> Thus
did Divine wisdom use <q>the wrath of man to praise Him</q>
and cause the <q>iron wall</q> of the civil, military and naval
powers of the British Empire, Germany, and of the United
States, to stand an impregnable barrier against the persecuting
power of Great Babylon. Safe behind the iron wall,
the reform element was able to live and grow in its camp
and to keep up its siege of Roman Catholic priestcraft.
</p>

<p>
4:6. <hi rend='sans'>And when thou hast accomplished them, lie again
on thy right side, and thou shalt bear the iniquity of the
house of Judah forty days: I have appointed thee each day
for a year.</hi>&mdash;The right side signifies less disfavor than to
Papacy. The house of Judah represents Protestantism, the
Protestant churches. Until 1878, when cast off by the
returned and present Messiah, Protestantism enjoyed Divine
favor, just as the two tribes, collectively called Judah,
did as compared with the idolatrous ten tribes of Israel.
After 1874 the Present Truth took the form of a general
overhauling of creeds and the announcement of Christ's
Second Presence. This was unanimously rejected by the
Protestant churches; and organized Protestant ecclesiasticism
from 1878 on for forty years became the Judah of
this type, besieged on every side by the reform element,
under the leadership of the steward of Divine Truth, Pastor
Russell. Until 1918, Hebrew reckoning, beginning in
the fall of 1917, the civil powers continue as a <q>wall of
iron,</q> protecting the Lord's people in their witness against
error.&mdash;Rev. 3:14; B. 66, 91.
</p>

<p>
4:7. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore thou shalt set thy face toward the siege
of Jerusalem, and thine arm shall be uncovered, and thou
shalt prophesy against it.</hi>&mdash;The Ezekiel class, the true
Protestant reform class, during the 390 and the 40 years
set themselves to the attack upon priestcraft. Pastor
Russell seldom spoke without some words of objection to
or warning about ecclesiasticism. The arm symbolizes
power (E. <hi rend='italic'>50</hi>, 47) and the uncovering of the arm is as when
a man takes off his coat in attacking a task. The siege
was to be carried on with energy. The reform element
was to preach continually, not condoning or excusing
priestcraft, but directly and pointedly attacking it.
</p>

<p>
4:8. <hi rend='sans'>And, behold, I will lay bands upon thee, and thou
shalt not turn thee from one side to another, till thou hast
ended the days of thy siege.</hi>&mdash;God bound His true people
to this work. The reform element were not to change
their attitude, but continually to keep at the attack upon
<pb n='396'/><anchor id='Pg396'/>
ecclesiastical corruption until the siege should end in 1918.
The Hebrew year 1918, begins in October, 1917.
</p>

<p>
4:9. <hi rend='sans'>Take thou also unto thee wheat, and barley, and
beans, and lentiles, and millet, and fitches, and put them
in one vessel, and make thee bread thereof, according to
the number of the days that thou shalt lie upon thy side;
three hundred and ninety days shalt thou eat thereof.</hi>&mdash;These
grains represent different grades of spiritual food,
each kind of food to be eaten by the kind of Christian
represented by the food. Wheat represents the true Gospel
of the Kingdom, as in the parable of the sower (Matt.
13:1-30), and is the food of the Little Flock. Barley among
the Hebrews was little esteemed, for it was the price of
an adulteress. (Hos. 3:2.) It signifies the spiritual food
of a class guilty of spiritual adultery, unhallowed alliance
with the world in the bringing forth of <q>strange</q> children.
(Hos. 5:7.) Beans, lentiles, millet and fitches represent
grades of food inferior to wheat (which contains every
element to support life) and inferior even to barley. Their
continued use as foods, causes physical deficiencies, weaknesses
and disease. Lentiles are usually cultivated for
fodder. Millet is still inferior. Symbolically it represents
Christians who <q>have no depth of earth.</q> (Matt. 13:5.)
Vetches, sometimes called <q>tares</q> or <q>prickly spelt,</q> are
a very poor food. Their prickly nature suggests a type
of hard-to-get-along-with Christians, and the kind of mental,
moral and spiritual food that produces them. In with
some of the true wheat, in established churchianity, as
shown by verse 16, were to be gathered Christians of
various degrees of development, each eating the kind of
food corresponding to his Christian development, the wheat
class assimilating the best of the Divine Word, and so on
down to those who absorbed the poorest grade of spiritual
provender, some of it food usually regarded as fit only
for animals. This was the food the various classes should
subsist on, each according to his capacity, from 1528 to
1918, and from 1878 to 1918.
</p>

<p>
4:10, 11. <hi rend='sans'>And thy meat which thou shalt eat shall be by
weight, twenty shekels a day: from time to time shalt
thou eat it. Thou shalt drink also water by measure, the
sixth part of a hin: from time to time shalt thou drink.</hi>&mdash;A
shekel was half an ounce; twenty shekels were ten
ounces. A hin was a gallon and a half. The sixth part
of a hin was one quart. This was the daily ration, a
starvation allowance. They were not to feed on it continuously,
but on Sundays, or two or three times a week&mdash;<q>from
time to time.</q> The people would, as a class, have
a scanty spiritual subsistence during the siege period.
</p>

<pb n='397'/><anchor id='Pg397'/>

<p>
4:12. <hi rend='sans'>And thou shalt eat it as barley cakes, and thou
shalt bake it with dung that cometh out of man, in their
sight.</hi>&mdash;Cakes, made of this mixture, were used by the very
poor in times of scarcity, depicting the scarcity of spiritual
food among the followers of ecclesiasticism. The poor,
not having stones or ovens, baked their bread or cakes
on heated stones or in the fire, or roasted them by placing
them between layers of dung, which burns slowly. Only
the dung of animals was used ordinarily. No insult or
defilement was greater than to turn a man's house into a
receptacle for human excrement. (Deut. 23:12-14.) Our
Lord associated human dung with <q>that which defileth a
man.</q> (Matt. 15:11.) Luther spoke of the <q>dunghill of
Roman decretals.</q> The human dung signifies human traditions,
clerical additions to the Word of God.
</p>

<p>
4:13. <hi rend='sans'>And the Lord said, Even thus shall the children
of Israel eat their defiled bread among the Gentiles,
whither I will drive them.</hi>&mdash;The spiritual food, poor as
the mixture was, was to be thoroughly defiled.
</p>

<p>
4:14. <hi rend='sans'>Then said I, Ah Lord God! behold, my soul hath
not been polluted: for from my youth up even till now
have I not eaten of that which dieth of itself, or is torn
in pieces; neither came there abominable flesh into my
mouth.</hi>&mdash;This typifies the heart desire of the reformer
class to keep clear of defiling errors.
</p>

<p>
4:15. <hi rend='sans'>Then he said unto me, Lo, I have given thee cow's
dung for man's dung, and thou shalt prepare thy bread
therewith.</hi>&mdash;The spiritual food would be unsavory enough.
</p>

<p>
4:16. <hi rend='sans'>Moreover he said unto me, Son of man, behold,
I will break the staff of bread in Jerusalem; and they shall
eat bread by weight, and with care; and they shall drink
water by measure; and with astonishment.</hi>&mdash;The type
enacted by Ezekiel was intended to depict spiritual conditions
in ecclesiasticism, Romish after 1528 A. D. and
Protestant after 1878 A. D., in Jerusalem (churchianity),
the besieged city, where there would be a famine of the
Word of God. As prophecies often have a literal as well
as a symbolic fulfillment, this refers also to the straitness
of the siege of literal Jerusalem and to the literal scarcity
of food in the Time of Trouble upon Christendom, with its
high cost of living, food dictators and food tickets.&mdash;Lev.
26:26.
</p>

<p>
4:17. <hi rend='sans'>That they may want bread and water, and be
astonied one with another, and consume away for their
iniquity.</hi>&mdash;Like as people on poor food in starvation quantities
weaken and die, so Christians weaken and die spiritually
on the diet provided by priests and clergy.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='398'/><anchor id='Pg398'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 5&mdash;The Severed Hair Calamities</head>

<p>
5:1. <hi rend='sans'>And thou, son of man, take thee a sharp knife, take
thee a barber's razor, and cause it to pass upon thine head
and upon thy beard: then take thee balances to weigh, and
divide the hair.</hi>&mdash;This is located <q>after the days of the
siege</q> of Jerusalem, or in antitype after Romanism's and
Protestantism's siege is ended in 1918. It had a literal
fulfillment in 606 B. C. and is to have a literal and a
symbolic fulfillment in and after 1918. It depicts the several
kinds of troubles upon Christendom, and the causes
provoking them. The shaving of the head represents the
affliction of Christendom. (Isaiah 3:17, 20, 24; Jer. 7:29.)
The shaving of the beard was part of the ceremonial
treatment of a leper (Lev. 14:8, 9), and signifies that after
1918 Christendom will be treated by outraged Justice at
a moral leper, unclean with incurable iniquity, the perverseness,
which, in the face of continual preaching of the
Gospel, led up to the recent wars.
</p>

<p>
Ezek. 5:2, 12, 16, 17, relate to features of the destruction
of literal Jerusalem in 606 B. C. and 70-73 A. D. and
of Christendom in 1914 to 1918 A. D. Since in verse 12 a
third part of the persons were to suffer death or affliction,
the hair in verses 1, 2 and 3 signifies the people in Jerusalem&mdash;Christendom.
In Samson's case the hair represented
his strength; and here the hair cut off signifies that
the people who are the strength of Christendom shall be
cut off in the brief but terribly eventful period beginning
in 1918 A. D. A third part are <q>burned with fire in the
midst of the city.</q> Fire symbolises destruction. One
large part of the adherents of ecclesiasticism win die from
pestilence and famine. (Deut. 32:24.) In 5:16, 17 the
shafts of hunger are represented as the evil arrows of
famine. The staff is that upon which one leans; the staff
of bread is the food supply of Christendom. In 1916 there
was already a 25 per cent. crop shortage throughout the
world, presaging worse conditions to come. In verse 18
the evil beasts sent upon Christendom are the savage
<q>Christian</q> governments of the world (Deut. 32:24), which,
by unheard-of barbarity in war, are bereaving the people
by millions and causing bloodshed unparalleled in history.
</p>

<pb n='399'/><anchor id='Pg399'/>

<p>
5:2. <hi rend='sans'>Thou shalt burn with fire a third part in the midst
of the city, when the days of the siege are fulfilled: and
thou shalt take a third part, and smite about it with a
knife: and a third part thou shalt scatter in the wind; and
I will draw out a sword after them.</hi>&mdash;A third part of the
hair was to be smitten with a knife. See 5:12. This represents
people not definitely in or under ecclesiasticism,
but associated with it, favoring it, and benefiting from it
These are to be smitten with the sword drawn for destruction
of life in the Time of Trouble. A considerable portion
of the people will be separated by the winds of warfare
and commotion from all connection with churchianity.
These have been connected with, sympathizers with, or
beneficiaries from churchianity. This class also will be
involved in the bloodshed of the <q>great tribulation.</q>&mdash;Matt.
24:21; Rev. 7:14.
</p>

<p>
5:3, 4. <hi rend='sans'>Thou shalt also take thereof a few in number,
and bind them in thy skirts. Then take of them again,
and cast them into the midst of the fire, and burn them in
the fire; for thereof shall a fire come forth into all the
house of Israel.</hi>&mdash;To bind in the skirts is a symbol of close
affiliation. A few adherents of churchianity will affiliate
themselves with those believing Present Truth, but so
searching will be the circumstances of the trouble period
that none not at heart <q>in Present Truth</q> (2 Pet. 1:12)
will be able to remain in the protection overshadowing the
Lord's people. These few will be separated, and finally
become involved in the destruction upon all supporters of,
sympathizers with and beneficiaries of churchianity. Not
one shall escape; it will be upon <q>all the house of Israel.</q>
Babylon's conflagration will be hastened by the adherents
here described. After 1918 the people supporting churchianity
will cease to be its supporters, be destroyed as
adherents, by the spiritual pestilence of errors abroad, and
by the famine of the Word of God among them. The
Sword of the Spirit (Eph. 6:17), which is the Word of
God, will be wielded in the hands of <q>Present Truth</q> believers
in such a manner as to cause conscientious supporters
of ecclesiasticism to cease to be supporters.
</p>

<p>
5:5. <hi rend='sans'>Thus saith the Lord God; This is Jerusalem: I have
set it in the midst of the nations and countries that are
round about her.</hi>&mdash;God, through the increase of knowledge,
the Renaissance, and the dynamic power of belief in the
Word of God, has set up Christendom on a pinnacle of
power in the midst of the heathen nations or the world.
</p>

<p>
5:6. <hi rend='sans'>And she hath changed my judgments into wickedness
more than the nations, and my statutes more than
the countries that are round about her: for they have
<pb n='400'/><anchor id='Pg400'/>
refused my judgments and my statutes, they have not
walked in them.</hi>&mdash;God taught Christendom the principles
of Justice and gave her His law of Divine, self-sacrificing
love&mdash;<q>A new law, that ye love one another.</q> (John 13:34.)
Relatively to the light of Christendom and heathendom,
Christendom is far the more wicked; for, having the instructions,
exhortations and examples of the Bible, she
has both refused them and not walked in them.
</p>

<p>
5:7. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore thus saith the Lord God; Because ye
multiplied more than the nations that are round about you,
and have not walked in My statutes, neither have kept My
judgments, neither have done according to the judgments
of the nations that are round about you.</hi>&mdash;Christendom under
the blessing of God has multiplied in material things
and in knowledge more than heathendom, and yet has not
only not walked in God's Law of Love, but has not lived
up to the standards of righteousness and justice of the
heathen. Chinese are more reliable in business engagements
than are Christians. Some tribes in Africa are more
moral sexually than are whites, and explorers have noted
the natural kindness of the negroes of Nyassa and Soudan.
</p>

<p>
5:8. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore thus saith the Lord God: behold, I, even
I, am against thee, and will execute judgments in the
midst of thee in the sight of the nations.</hi>&mdash;Because of
Christendom's wickedness against light, God is against this
system calling itself by Christ's holy name, and will execute
upon it judgment of such unprecedented awfulness
as to constitute a lasting lesson to <q>uncivilized</q> peoples.
</p>

<p>
5:9. <hi rend='sans'>And I will do in thee that which I have not done,
and whereunto I will not do any more the like, because of
all thine abominations.</hi>&mdash;The punishments come because of
churchianity's illicit union of church and state, termed
spiritual <q>fornication</q> (Rev. 17:2); her licensing of liquor,
vice and crime; her doctrines of devils (1 Tim. 4:1), such
as eternal torment, inherent immortality and Trinity; her
desolating abomination in the Romish mass (Matt. 24:15);
and her Phariseeism in the face of wilful butchery of
millions.
</p>

<p>
5:10, 11. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore the fathers shall eat the sons in the
midst of thee, and the sons shall eat their fathers; and I
will execute judgments in thee, and the whole remnant of
thee will I scatter into all the winds. Wherefore, as I
live, saith the Lord God; Surely, because thou hast defiled
My Sanctuary with all thy detestable things, and with all
thine abominations, therefore will I also diminish thee;
neither shall Mine eye spare, neither will I have any pity.</hi>&mdash;The
Hebrew sanctuary or temple typed the Christian
Sanctuary class, the Church of living stones (1 Pet. 2:5),
<pb n='401'/><anchor id='Pg401'/>
the Temple of the Holy Spirit (1 Cor. 3:16, 17.) True
Christianity, pure in apostolic days, was defiled (2 Chr.
36:14) with practices and doctrines detestable and abominable
to God, until now it is termed <q>the great whore,</q>
(apostate church of Romanism) and the daughters <q>harlots</q>
(Protestant churches). (Rev. 17:5.) Divine Justice
will not spare nor pity, until upon Christendom has been
visited all the righteous blood of hundreds of millions of
victims of her long centuries of unchristian wars and persecutions.
</p>

<p>
5:12, 13. <hi rend='sans'>A third part of thee shall die with the pestilence,
and with famine shall they be consumed in the
midst of thee: and a third part shall fall by the sword
round about thee; and I will scatter a third part into all
the winds, and I will draw out a sword after them. Thus
shall Mine anger be accomplished, and I will cause My
fury to rest upon them, and I will be comforted: and they
shall know that I the Lord have spoken it in My zeal,
when I have accomplished My fury in them.</hi>&mdash;Job hoped
for the time when God's wrath should be past. (Job 14:13.)
The wrath of God will be over forever when this trouble
time is past. (Isa. 10:25.) Divine Justice will be comforted,
will rest, having accomplished its sentence of
death, with the accompaniments of sickness, sorrow, tears
and degradation, mental, moral and physical, upon the
human race.
</p>

<p>
5:14-17. <hi rend='sans'>Moreover I will make thee waste, and a reproach
among the nations that are round about thee, in
the sight of all that pass by. So it shall be a reproach and
a taunt, an instruction and an astonishment unto the nations
that are round about thee, when I shall execute judgments
in thee in anger and in fury and in furious rebukes.
I the Lord have spoken it. When I shall send upon them
the evil arrows of famine, which shall be for their destruction,
and which I will send to destroy you: and I will increase
the famine upon you, and will break your staff of
bread: So will I send upon you famine and evil beasts,
and they shall bereave thee; and pestilence and blood shall
pass through thee; and I will bring the sword upon thee.
I the Lord have spoken it.</hi>&mdash;Christendom is to be laid waste
by war, revolution, anarchy, famine (Luke 21:26), and
pestilence, from end to end. Her vaunted and envied eminence
will pass, through self-destruction, due to false ideals
of honor, into a desolation causing the taunts and reproaches
of the heathen, and being to the heathen nations
a cause of astonishment and source of instruction. The
fury of God's anger against her appears in the expression
<q>in anger and in fury and in furious rebukes.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='402'/><anchor id='Pg402'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 6&mdash;Sword&mdash;Famine&mdash;Pestilence</head>

<p>
6:1-4. <hi rend='sans'>And the Word of the Lord came unto me, saying,
Son of man, set thy face toward the mountains of Israel,
and prophesy against them, and say, Ye mountains of
Israel, hear the word of the Lord God; Thus saith the
Lord God to the mountains and to the hills, to the rivers
and to the valleys; Behold, I, even I, will bring a sword
upon you, and I will destroy your high places. And your
altars shall be desolate, and your images shall be broken:
and I will cast down your slain men before your idols.</hi>&mdash;This
chapter relates to the Divine wrath, after 1918 A. D.,
upon the governments, symbolically called <q>mountains and
hills,</q> and the rivers, the denominations.
</p>

<p>
6:5-7. <hi rend='sans'>And I will lay the dead carcasses of the children
of Israel before their idols; and I will scatter your bones
round about your altars. In all your dwelling places the
cities shall be laid waste, and the high places shall be
desolate; that your altars may be laid waste and made
desolate, and your idols may be broken and cease, and your
images may be cut down, and your works may be abolished.
And the slain shall fall in the midst of you, and ye
shall know that I am the Lord.</hi>&mdash;All state churches are to be
destroyed, literally by the sword, and by the truth about
them in the Word of God, the Sword of the Spirit. (2 Ki.
23:13-22.) At the tops of the hills and mountains,
the governments, are the altars, the centers of the nation's
worship. Great sacrifices are made by the masses to maintain
these altars.
</p>

<p>
6:8. <hi rend='sans'>Yet will I leave a remnant, that ye may have some
that shall escape the sword among the nations, when ye
shall be scattered through the countries.</hi>&mdash;Heathendom will
be the safest place on earth in the time of Zion's travail!
(Jer. 44:28.)
</p>

<p>
6:9. <hi rend='sans'>And they that escape of you shall remember Me
among the nations whither they shall be carried captives,
because I am broken with their whorish heart, which hath
departed from Me, and with their eyes, which go a whoring
after their idols: and they shall loathe themselves for the
<pb n='403'/><anchor id='Pg403'/>
evils which they have committed in all their abominations.</hi>&mdash;God
has completely broken relations with the churches,
which with heart and eye have <q>departed from Me.</q>
</p>

<p>
6:10. <hi rend='sans'>And they shall know that I am the Lord, and that
I have not said in vain that I would do this evil unto them.</hi>&mdash;After
the trouble is over, the survivors will have a thousand
years in which to recognize the hand of God.
</p>

<p>
6:11. <hi rend='sans'>Thus saith the Lord God; Smite with thine hand,
and stamp with thy foot, and say, Alas for all the evil
abominations of the house of Israel: for they shall fall by
the sword, by the famine, and by the pestilence.</hi>&mdash;The
attitude of the Lord's true people, <q>the mourners in Zion</q>
(Isa. 61:3), is that of righteous indignation against the
abominations of Christendom.
</p>

<p>
6:12. <hi rend='sans'>He that is far off shall die of the pestilence; and
he that is near shall fall by the sword; and he that remaineth
and is besieged shall die by the famine: thus will
I accomplish My fury upon them.</hi>&mdash;In spite of the manifest
judgments of God, the devotees of Mystic Babylon, <q>Christians,</q>
will not turn to God but, while doing reverence and
rendering service to their altars and idols, will be overtaken
by literal sword, famine and pestilence (Jer. 15:2)
and by the spiritual Sword of the Spirit, by starvation
from the lack of God's Word, and by pestilential doctrines.&mdash;Psa.
91:6, 7.
</p>

<p>
6:13. <hi rend='sans'>Then shall ye know that I am the Lord, when their
slain men shall be among their idols round about their
altars, upon every high hill, in all the tops of the mountains,
and under every green tree, and under every thick
oak, the place where they did offer sweet savour to all their
idols.</hi>&mdash;In the Roman and Greek churches the idols, images
and ikons are literal. There are other idols in all the
churches&mdash;power, prestige, social position, clerical honor,
gold, worldly education, etc. As in the Tabernacle types,
zealous, obedient sacrifice caused a <q>sweet savor</q> to rise
to God, so the same service raises a sweet savor to the
idols of Christendom. The <q>green trees</q> and <q>thick oaks</q>
were favorite objects of idolatry (Jer. 2:20; Hos. 4:13),
and typed the worship of prominent preachers and other
men.&mdash;Psalm 37:35.
</p>

<p>
6:14. <hi rend='sans'>So will I stretch out My hand upon them, and
make the land desolate, yea, more desolate than the wilderness
toward Diblath, in all their habitations; and they shall
know that I am the Lord.</hi>&mdash;Christendom is to be made
more desolate than the wilderness surrounding Palestine,
wiped off the face of the earth, to make way for the New
Order of things, <q>the world to come</q> (Heb. 2:5), <q>wherein
dwelleth righteousness.</q>&mdash;2 Pet. 3:13.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='404'/><anchor id='Pg404'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 7&mdash;Dawn Of The Evil Day</head>

<p>
7:1-6. <hi rend='sans'>Moreover the word of the Lord came unto me,
saying, Also, thou son of man, thus saith the Lord God
unto the land of Israel; An end, the end is come upon the
four corners of the land. Now is the end come upon thee,
and I will send Mine anger upon thee, and will judge thee
according to thy ways, and will recompense upon thee all
thine abominations. And Mine eye shall not spare thee,
neither will I have pity; but I will recompense thy ways
upon thee, and thine abominations shall be in the midst
of thee; and ye shall know that I am the Lord. Thus saith
the Lord God; An evil, an only evil, behold, is come. An
end is come, the end is come; it watcheth for thee; behold,
it is come.</hi>&mdash;Chapter 7 includes what Ezekiel saw in
type and what the Ezekiel class now sees in antitype&mdash;the
destruction of the symbolic earth (the social order), and
the causes therefor; the escape of the remnant who will
pass alive through the trouble into the better order of
things; the defilement and destruction of God's <q>ornament,</q>
Christendom; and the binding and destruction of
the rule of wicked might. Pastor Russell's mission, in
large part, was to advise Christendom of its impending
end, in the time of world-wide trouble. It is the Divine
judgment upon the nations. They reap as they have
sown. In times past God winked at the iniquity of men
(Acts 17:30); but now evil shall receive its just recompense
in the wrath of long-insulted Justice. It will be a
period of unmixed evil upon Christendom, the purpose of
which will be to demonstrate to men's certain knowledge
that <q>thy God reigneth.</q> (Isa. 52:7.) There will be no
chance of escaping from destruction, though the nations&mdash;as
in cases of Germany, the Allies and the United States&mdash;earnestly
seek in vain for some way of securing peace.
The trouble is due to the dawning of the Day of Christ,
the Millennium. It is the Day of Vengeance, which began
in the world war of 1914 and which will break like a
furious morning storm in 1918.&mdash;Lam. 4:18.
</p>

<p>
7:7-9. <hi rend='sans'>The morning is come unto thee, O thou that
dwellest in the land: the time is come, the day of trouble
is near, and not the sounding again of the mountains.
<pb n='405'/><anchor id='Pg405'/>
Now will I shortly pour out My fury upon thee, and accomplish
Mine anger upon thee; and I will judge thee
according to thy ways, and will recompense thee for all
thine abominations. And Mine eye shall not spare, neither
will I have pity; I will recompense thee according to thy
ways and thine abominations that are in the midst of thee;
and ye shall know that I am the Lord that smiteth.</hi>&mdash;The
chiefest sufferers will be those setting affections on
earthly things, earth dwellers and earth lovers. Steep
mountain valleys are full of echoing sounds, falling trees,
dislodged rocks, avalanches, landslides, waterfalls, or the
thunders of local storms. Earth's nations have been resounding
for centuries with local wars, seditions, revolutions,
famine and pestilence. (A. 318.) These passed away;
but the present commotion and impending revolution and
anarchy will not cease, but will spread and increase until
this order of things is destroyed.
</p>

<p>
7:10. <hi rend='sans'>Behold the Day, behold it is come: the Morning
is gone forth; the rod hath blossomed, pride hath budded.</hi>&mdash;<q>Pride
goeth before destruction.</q> (Prov. 16:18.) Human
pride [among kaisers, clergy, labor leaders, and capitalists],
has budded, blossomed forth into acts that will bring destruction.
The rod is a symbol of authority. Organized
authority is perverted from its Divinely appointed function
of restraint and punishment of crime into a ruthless rule
of might and bloodshed.
</p>

<p>
7:11. <hi rend='sans'>Violence is risen up into a rod of wickedness;
none of them shall remain, nor of their multitude, nor of
any of theirs; neither shall there be wailing for them.</hi>&mdash;Those
who rule by violence shall be utterly rooted out of
the earth in the Time of Trouble, unhonored and unwept
(Jer. 16:4-6), accursed for the evil they have wrought.
The clergy, for whom many would even have died in the
past, but who have preached the people into this war and
into the world's ruin, will become objects of popular hatred.
</p>

<p>
7:12. <hi rend='sans'>The time is come, the Day draweth near; let not
the buyer rejoice, nor the seller mourn; for wrath is upon
all the multitude thereof.</hi>&mdash;The year 1918, with its fearful
revolutions and succeeding anarchy, is at the door.
</p>

<p>
7:13. <hi rend='sans'>For the seller shall not return to that which is
sold, although they were yet alive: for the vision is touching
the whole multitude thereof, which shall not return;
neither shall any strengthen himself in the iniquity of his
life.</hi>&mdash;This indicates the languishing and eventual decline
and cessation of business. (Isa. 33:8.) Symbolically, it
represents the ceasing of the clergy from <q>selling</q> religion
and the people from buying. <q>Success consists in
knowing how to be discreetly dishonest</q> is now a common
<pb n='406'/><anchor id='Pg406'/>
rule of practice; but the time is at hand when iniquitous
practices and precepts will no longer profit any.
</p>

<p>
7:14. <hi rend='sans'>They have blown the trumpet, even to make all
ready; but none goeth to the Battle; for My wrath is upon
all the multitude thereof.</hi>&mdash;There are other trumpets than
the trumpet of Truth. Established error has its trumpet
message. Ecclesiasticism, capitalism, and governments together
have blown the trumpet of the Divine right of
kings, magnates, and clergy, of the civic-betterment gospel
and of <q>preparedness.</q> Labor leaders have rallied the
people to fight for their unions. Trumpet messages will
summon the people of the world to yet other strife. But
so furious and heart-breaking will be the trouble that none
will have the spirit to respond. There is a hint here that
conscription will meet with opposition.
</p>

<p>
7:15. <hi rend='sans'>The sword is without, and the pestilence and the
famine within: he that is in the field shall die with the
sword; and he that is in the city, famine and pestilence
shall devour him.</hi>&mdash;Worldly people in Christendom, not professors
of Christianity, will be pressed into the active fighting
of the Time of Trouble and will perish. (Deut. 32:25;
Jer. 14:18.) Those in the city refer to the professors of
Christianity&mdash;church members.
</p>

<p>
7:16. <hi rend='sans'>But they that escape of them shall escape, and
shall be on the mountains like doves of the valleys, all of
them mourning, every one for his iniquity.</hi>&mdash;There will be
survivors of the Time of Trouble who will live on into
the Millennium proper. Those of dove-like character will
be most likely to survive. The dove has a mournful note.
This class will appreciate their iniquity, repent of it and
pray for forgiveness and deliverance.&mdash;E. <hi rend='italic'>231</hi>, 212.
</p>

<p>
7:17. <hi rend='sans'>All hands shall be feeble, and all knees shall be
weak as water.</hi>&mdash;The hands symbolize power. The people
of Christendom will realize their helplessness. The extremity
of the situation will weaken the strongest.&mdash;Zeph.
1:14; A. 315.
</p>

<p>
7:18. <hi rend='sans'>They shall also gird themselves with sackcloth,
and horror shall cover them; and shame shall be upon all
faces, and baldness upon all their heads.</hi>&mdash;In mourning for
their dead, men's minds and hearts will revolt at the horrors
of the calamity. All will realize with shame that by
drunkenness with Babylon's mixed teachings (Rev. 17:2)
they have brought the trouble on themselves. In grief
the Hebrews shaved the head.&mdash;Isa. 3:24.
</p>

<p>
7:19. <hi rend='sans'>They shall cast their silver in the streets, and
their gold shall be removed; their sliver and their gold
shall not be able to deliver them in the day of the wrath
of the Lord; they shall not satisfy their souls, neither fill
<pb n='407'/><anchor id='Pg407'/>
their bowels; because it is the stumbling-block of their
iniquity.</hi>&mdash;With the demonetization of silver, gold has become
as a thing unclean (is losing its purchasing power).
All forms of money, bonds, stocks and valuables will be
worthless when governments are gone and whole nations
are starving. (D. 45.) There was a literal fulfillment of this
Scripture in 1898 when in Italy a miller who had publicly
thanked the Virgin for dear bread, literally threw gold
and silver to a crowd in the streets in a vain endeavor to
pacify them. They demanded his life and took it.&mdash;Z. '98-331.
</p>

<p>
7:20. <hi rend='sans'>As for the beauty of His ornament, He set it in
majesty; but they made the images of their abominations
and of their detestable things therein; therefore have I set it
far from them.</hi>&mdash;<q>Jerusalem is a crown of glory and a
royal diadem</q>. (Isa. 62:3.) Christianity, the embryonic
Kingdom of God, was originally <q>His ornament,</q> in the
apostolic age of the Church. Literal images were set up
by the Hebrews in secret places, and to this day are worshipped
by Romanists literally. Romanists and Protestants
alike worship the images of world-power, wealth, state-church
affiliation, clergy lordship, eternal torment, human
immortality and trinity, all alike detestable to a jealous
God. The actual ornament of God, His jewel, His diadem,
is the true Church, composed mostly of the poor, rich in
faith (Jas. 2:5)&mdash;of the reform element who since 1878 have
been withdrawing from ecclesiasticism and coming to God.
</p>

<p>
7:21. <hi rend='sans'>And I will give it into the hands of the strangers
for a prey, and to the wicked of the earth for a spoil; and
they shall pollute it.</hi>&mdash;The nominal jewel, churchianity, has
become the prey of clerical and social anarchists.&mdash;D. 550.
</p>

<p>
7:22. <hi rend='sans'>My face will I turn also from them, and they shall
pollute My secret place; for the robbers shall enter into
it, and defile it.</hi>&mdash;The secret place is the condition of consecration,
which an apostate clergy pollute by misrepresentations,
such as that bravery in battle, suffering in the
trenches, devotion to a falling order of things (Hab. 2:13),
win a place in Heaven&mdash;won only by loyal devotion to
God's Word, and by the spirit-begotten alone. <q>I am the
Door. He that entereth in by another way is a robber.</q>&mdash;John
10:1.
</p>

<p>
7:23. <hi rend='sans'>Make a chain: for the land is full of bloody
crimes, and the city is full of violence.</hi>&mdash;Bind, unite them
together, let the Divinely (!) appointed clergy and the governments
for which they stand sponsor, make common
cause. (D. 550.) Christendom is full of the beastly crimes of
the most barbarous warfare ever known. A city symbolizes
a government.
</p>

<pb n='408'/><anchor id='Pg408'/>

<p>
7:24. <hi rend='sans'>Wherefore I will bring the worst of the heathen,
and they shall possess their houses: I will also make the
pomp of the strong to cease; and their holy places shall
be defiled.</hi>&mdash;Macaulay, the English historian, spoke of
America as destined to be destroyed by its own Huns and
Vandals, the unassimilated, uncivilized elements, especially
of the cities. The anarchistic masses will literally live in
the houses of the erstwhile rulers and prominent people.
The display of power and magnificence of the strong one,
Satan, the alleged eternal-torment God, and the devil-worshipers
of Christendom shall cease. Literally, the
churches, Y. M. C. A.'s, monasteries and convents, supposedly
holy, will be defiled by the impious.
</p>

<p>
7:25. <hi rend='sans'>Destruction cometh; and they shall seek peace,
and there shall be none.</hi>&mdash;There shall be no peace with
God, or peace among the conflicting elements of society.
</p>

<p>
7:26. <hi rend='sans'>Mischief shall come upon mischief, and rumour
shall be upon rumour; then shall they seek a vision of the
prophet; but the law shall perish from the priest, and
counsel from the ancients.</hi>&mdash;Literally <q>accident upon accident</q>
will befall the affairs of Christendom. (Jer. 4:29.)
The people, wild with perplexity, will seek to the clergy for
an understanding of the world-holocaust; but the true Law,
the Word of God, has departed from a clergy more learned
in church politics and money-raising schemes than in the
Bible. The ancients, the <q>reverends,</q> college professors
and savants do not know what counsel to give to meet the
crisis.&mdash;Isa. 29:9-14.
</p>

<p>
7:27. <hi rend='sans'>The king shall mourn, and the prince shall be
clothed with desolation, and the hands of the people of
the land shall be troubled: I will do unto them after their
way, and according to their deserts will I judge them; and
they shall know that I am the Lord.</hi>&mdash;Satan shall mourn
the downfall of his power, as will the heads of the savage,
beastly governments under his control. (Matt. 4:8, 9.)
<q>The exalted one</q> or prince, Satan's chief representative
among men, is the pope; and he, with his princes, cardinals,
archbishops, bishops, priests and clergy, shall see the
desolation due to their work.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>O thou of little faith, who dost thou fear?</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>The tempest hath no power when I am near;</l>
<l>Will not the angry waves be still at My command?</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Step out, I'll hold thy hand,</l>
<l><q rend='post'>Then, wherefore dost thou fear?</q></l>
</lg>
</quote>

</div>

<pb n='409'/><anchor id='Pg409'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 8&mdash;Molech, The Torment Deity</head>

<p>
8:1. <hi rend='sans'>And it came to pass in the sixth year, in the sixth
month, in the fifth day of the month, as I sat in mine house,
and the elders of Judah sat before me, that the hand of
the Lord God fell there upon me.</hi>&mdash;Chapters 8 to 24 continue
the recital of the sins of Jerusalem, Christendom, and
the Divine punishment to be inflicted on her. Chapter 8
refers literally to the temple, and its defilement by the
seating of an idol of Baal at the door near the Brazen Altar,
by the desecration of its interior with symbols of Egyptian
heathenism and by the practicing of heathen worship
within the temple. This types the condition of the spiritual
Temple of God, <q>which Temple ye are</q>, the Church of
God, originally pure and holy, but defiled by the clergy
with pagan practices. The type refers back to 2 Chronicles
33:1-9, where King Manasseh established heathen
worship throughout Palestine, set up a carved image in
Solomon's temple and <q>made Judah and the inhabitants
of Jerusalem to err and to do worse than the heathens
whom the Lord had destroyed before the children of
Israel.</q> This resulted in Manasseh's overthrow at the
hands of the Assyrians. The name Manasseh means <q>causing
forgetfulness.</q> He typed Satan, the god of this world,
who, by his lying deceptions has made professing Christians
forget God. Satan's chief <q>angel of light</q> is the pope
of Rome, ably seconded in keeping the people in the dark
by the cardinals, bishops, priests, monks and sisters of
apostate Rome and by the bishops and ministers of an
apostate Protestantism. These keep <q>their people</q> from
real Bible study, and encourage them in their forgetfulness
of God and their individual obligations to God, the
Word of God, to fellow-Christians and to the world. The
house is the House of the Sons of God, the consecrated.
The elders, chosen by the people, represented all the people.
The Protestant clergy continually sat before the Lord's
steward, could not pick up a paper that they did not see
his sermons in it; but they would not hear his words, and
they rejected him and the truths which he so plainly and
so kindly stated.
</p>

<pb n='410'/><anchor id='Pg410'/>

<p>
8:2, 3. <hi rend='sans'>Then I beheld, and lo a likeness as the appearance
of fire: from the appearance of his loins even downward,
fire; and from his loins even upward, as the appearance
of brightness, as the colour of amber. And He put
forth the form of a hand, and took me by a lock of mine
head; and the spirit lifted me up between the earth and
the heaven, and brought me in the visions of God to Jerusalem,
to the door of the inner gate that looketh toward
the north; where was the seat of the image of jealousy,
which provoketh to jealousy.</hi>&mdash;Through the illumination of
the Holy Spirit, the Ezekiel class is now taken up mentally
into the powers of spiritual control, to discern the significance
of the evil done by Satan and the clergy. They are
brought to Jerusalem the anti-typical, to consider established
priestcraft. They are brought to the door of the
inner gate, the gate of the altar between the people's court
and priest's court&mdash;(the same as the Tabernacle court.)
They are brought to the antitypical Temple, to the Chord
of God, to the Lord's people&mdash;<q>Ye are the Temple of God</q>.
(1 Cor. 3:16.) <q>I am the Door</q> (John 10:9.) The Door
represents Christ, through whom all that enter must come.
The North symbolizes the seat of Divine government, the
spiritual phase of the Kingdom. (Isa. 14:13.) The Door,
Christ, looks toward, tends toward spiritual things. Those
that enter through Christ are expected to look forward
from the condition of belief to that of full consecration,
the spirit-begotten condition. In the Door, in the very
place of Christ, Manasseh, type of the devil, and an
apostate clergy set up an idol, an image of the Devil himself.
Those who thereafter entered the court had to worship
the image, typing that under clergy rule all entering
the church, the condition of belief, had to do honor to
Satan, whose seat of chief power is at Rome, and whose
influence spreads wherever the clergy class is found.
</p>

<p>
The word <q>Baal</q> means <q>Lord.</q> The clergy have set
themselves as lords over God's heritage (1 Pet. 5:3), the
Church. By perversion of the plain meaning of literal
Bible statements, they have set up in the place of God the
deity of the Devil. This God of Romanism and Protestantism
is not one, but three; he inflicts tortures eternal; his
favor can be bought for money; he dwells in earthly buildings
(Acts 7:48), which are consecrated to him; he teaches
the direct opposite of the Word of God&mdash;that the dead are
alive; he favors spiritual adultery&mdash;the union of the church
with the governments of this world; he fosters lordship of
the clergy class. The clergy's God is plainly not Jehovah,
but the ancient deity, hoary with the iniquities of ages&mdash;Baal&mdash;the
Devil himself. God pity the clergy, who have so
<pb n='411'/><anchor id='Pg411'/>
long deceived themselves and the people with their <q>carved
image, the work of their own hands!</q> <q>I am jealous for
Zion with a great jealousy.</q> (Zech. 1:14.) <q>I, Jehovah,
thy God, am a jealous God.</q> (Ex. 20:5.) There is little
wonder that the literal typical Baal of the Jews and the
anti-typical eternal-torment God of the clergy should provoke
Jehovah to jealousy.
</p>

<p>
8:4. <hi rend='sans'>And, behold, the glory of the God of Israel was
there, according to the vision that I saw in the plain.</hi>&mdash;The
usual place of the Shekinah Light was in the Most Holy
between the cherubim above the golden Mercy Seat. It
was from this glory that fire came out at times like lightning
to consume and destroy iniquitous offenders. (Lev.
10:2.) It bodes ill for the devotees of the eternal-torment
god that the glory of Jehovah has come out against them.
</p>

<p>
8:5, 6. <hi rend='sans'>Then said He unto me, Son of man, lift up thine
eyes now the way toward the North. So I lifted up mine
eyes the way toward the North, and behold northward at
the gate of the altar this image of jealousy in the entry. He
said furthermore unto me, Son of man, seest thou what
they do? even the great abominations that the house of
Israel committeth here, that I should go far off from My
sanctuary? but turn thee yet again, and thou shalt see greater
abominations.</hi>&mdash;It is needless to look for abominations far
off when such an abomination has been set up by <q>impudent
children</q> at the very door of the Church.
</p>

<p>
8:7. <hi rend='sans'>And He brought me to the door of the court; and
when I looked, behold a hole in the wall.</hi>&mdash;In Solomon's
temple the court of the priests was surrounded not by a
simple wall, but by a row of rooms or chambers where the
priests and Levites stayed. The hole in the wall was an
opening or window into one of the chambers.
</p>

<p>
8:8. <hi rend='sans'>Then said He unto me, Son of man, dig now in the
wall, and when I had digged in the wall, behold a door.</hi>&mdash;The
wall was the wall of secrecy, misrepresentation and deception,
by reason of which the pagan practices and beliefs
of various classes of professed Christians were hidden from
publicity and consequent popular judgment. A little was
known about them, represented by the little hole in the
wall. It is the work of the Ezekiel class to dig through
the wall and throw the light on these hidden things. The
time has come for judgment, and for everything that is
done in a chamber to be proclaimed from the housetops.
(Luke 12:3.) Once the wall of secrecy is dug through, the
door is open to see whatever transpires.
</p>

<p>
8:9. <hi rend='sans'>And He said unto me, Go in, and behold the wicked
abominations that they do here.</hi>&mdash;The court typifies the condition
of faith&mdash;tentative justification. The chambers
<pb n='412'/><anchor id='Pg412'/>
surrounded the court. They symbolize the condition of
those who profess faith and justification, but whose lives
and beliefs contradict their professions.
</p>

<p>
8:10. <hi rend='sans'>So I went in and saw; and behold every form of
creeping things, and abominable beasts, and all the idols
of the house of Israel, portrayed upon the wall round about.</hi>&mdash;To
the Egyptians, artistic portrayals of creatures had a
religious significance. All kinds of living creatures were
worshipped. Chief of these was the bull Apis, which symbolized
life and especially the power of procreation. The
devotees of the antitype are never so happy as when giving
life to new spiritual offspring. The children thus begotten
are mostly tares. But few of them have the life that comes
from consecration to the Word of God. The revivalist and
the clergy care little for any begotten of the Word of God
and do little to help them grow up in Christ. They grow,
if at all, like starved, neglected children. As the service of
this worship could be conducted only by the regular priests
of Egypt, so the antitypical work can be done only by the
man-made clergy class of the world (Egypt) and those
<q>ordained</q> by them. Among the creeping things, objects
of worship, was the fly&mdash;the evangelist. (Rev. 16:2.) The
prince of the flies was Beelzebub. Flies breed in and feed
upon the <q>dung hill of Popish decretals</q> and other <q>traditions
of men.</q> They never get far above earthly things,
but circulate in the lower strata of the air&mdash;ecclesiasticism.
They bite and annoy both worldly people and the Lord's
people, as did the plague of flies in Egypt, and are specially
persistent in the humid condition of a rain&mdash;a downpour of
Truth. These, like all clergy-approved workers, are looked
up to, worshipped by the people of Christendom. Other
creeping things that fly signify degrading of forbidden beliefs
and practices, attractive, garbed in the cloak of religion,
under church auspices, as typed by their flying in
the air, ecclesiastical powers; but they are displeasing to
God and tending toward death.
</p>

<p>
8:11. <hi rend='sans'>And there stood before them seventy men of the
ancients of the house of Israel, and in the midst of them
stood Jaazaniah the son of Shaphan, with every man his
censer in his hand; and a thick cloud of incense went up.</hi>&mdash;Worshipping
the pictured images were the elders, or ancients,
appointed by and representing all the people of
Jerusalem. Jaazaniah was a Levite, typical of a believer in
Christ. The word Shaphan means <q>sly</q>, and suggests the
slyness of the adherents of wrong beliefs. Jaazaniah
means <q>God is listening,</q> and signifies the fact that whatever
<q>Christian</q> sinners may say, God is actually paying
attention. The censer was used to carry the fire in which
<pb n='413'/><anchor id='Pg413'/>
incense was burned. (Rev. 8:3.) It types the bearing of
the fiery trials signified by the fire. The devotees of error
suffer in its behalf, as Truth people suffer for the Truth.
Incense types the heart's best endeavors, here wrongly
directed by many professing Christians in the service of
Satan, as were Saul's in persecuting Christians. (Acts
22:3, 4.) Tares are often more devoted to their errors than
are the Lord's people to the Truth. <q>The children of this
world are wiser in their generation than the children of
light.</q> (Luke 16:8.) It was unlawful for a Hebrew to
burn incense, except as in the regular temple service. It
is an abomination for a professing Christian to put forth
his heart's best endeavors except in the service of God.
</p>

<p>
8:12. <hi rend='sans'>Then said He unto me, Son of man, hast thou seen
what the ancients of the house of Israel do in the dark,
every man in the chambers of his imagery? for they say,
The Lord seeth us not; the Lord hath forsaken the earth.</hi>&mdash;These
departures from true Christian belief are carried
on <q>in the dark.</q> (John 3:19.) Every tare, imitation
Christian, has his own peculiar beliefs and practices in
<q>the chamber of his imagery,</q> his mind. Because God
knows how to defer retribution until the Day of Judgment
(2 Pet. 2:9), these unwise ones delude themselves that the
All-Seeing One does not see. Those not familiar with the
Divine Plan of the Ages, seeing the conditions of savage
war trending into worse things, apparently have the delusion
that the Lord has forsaken the earth.
</p>

<p>
8:13, 14. <hi rend='sans'>He said also unto me, Turn thee yet again, and
thou shalt see greater abominations that they do. Then
He brought me to the door of the gate of the Lord's house
which was toward the north; and, behold, there sat women
weeping for Tammuz.</hi>&mdash;Tammuz means <q>perfect (tam) by
burning</q> (muz). He was a heathen god whose death was
lamented annually by women idolaters. He was the god of
fire worship, the same as Molech, to whom children were
burned alive. He types the eternal-torment-purgatory God,
who perfects (supposedly) by the fires of purgatory. The
women weeping for him typify the once-virgin churches,
who honor the alleged hell-fire god and lament the ones
in the fire. There is a unity of heathen religions with
apostate <q>Christianity</q> which stamps them all as pagan.
The original heathen god was Nimrod, <q>the mighty hunter</q>
of Gen. 10:8-14, where is related the origin of Babylon and
Ninevah. Nimrod led men and women from the true religion
of devout Noah into gross sensuality and neglect of
the worship of Jehovah. He was beloved by fallen women.
For his iniquitous influence, Nimrod was condemned to
death by the council of judges; and his dead body was
<pb n='414'/><anchor id='Pg414'/>
cut into pieces, which were sent to all parts of the inhabited
world, with the threat of death to any who practiced
his evil ways. Nimrod married his own mother, Semiramis,
so that, in a sense, he was his own father and his
own son. Here was the origin of the Trinity doctrine.
</p>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{1.5cm} p{1.5cm} p{1.5cm} p{1.5cm}'; tblcolumns: 'lw(16) lw(16) lw(16) lw(16)'">
<row><cell>Nation</cell><cell>Father-Husband</cell><cell>Son</cell><cell>The Woman</cell></row>
<row><cell></cell></row>
<row><cell>Asia</cell><cell></cell><cell>Decius</cell><cell>Cybele</cell></row>
<row><cell>Assyria</cell><cell>Winged bull</cell></row>
<row><cell>Babylonia</cell><cell>Lord of Heaven</cell></row>
<row><cell>Babylonia</cell><cell>Ninus</cell><cell>Tammuz</cell><cell>Queen of Heaven</cell></row>
<row><cell>Chaldea</cell><cell>Bal</cell><cell></cell><cell>Ishtar</cell></row>
<row><cell>Chaldea</cell><cell>Cahna-Bel (Cannibal)</cell><cell>The Seed</cell></row>
<row><cell>Chaldea</cell><cell>Molech</cell><cell></cell><cell>Ashtaroth</cell></row>
<row><cell>Chaldea</cell><cell>Zoroaster</cell><cell>The Seed of the Fire</cell></row>
<row><cell>China</cell><cell></cell><cell>Child</cell><cell>Madonna</cell></row>
<row><cell>Egypt</cell><cell>Apis bull</cell><cell></cell><cell>Cow of Athor</cell></row>
<row><cell>Egypt</cell><cell>Osiris</cell><cell>Horus</cell><cell>Isis</cell></row>
<row><cell>English</cell><cell>The Devil</cell></row>
<row><cell>Greece</cell><cell>Bacchus</cell><cell></cell><cell>Rhea</cell></row>
<row><cell>Greece</cell><cell>Capricornus</cell><cell></cell><cell>Astarte</cell></row>
<row><cell>Greece</cell><cell>Kissos</cell><cell></cell><cell>Mother of gods</cell></row>
<row><cell>Greece</cell><cell>Kronos</cell><cell></cell><cell>Aphrodite</cell></row>
<row><cell>Greece</cell><cell>Orion</cell><cell>Babe</cell><cell>Ceres</cell></row>
<row><cell>Greece</cell><cell>Saturn</cell><cell></cell><cell>Venus</cell></row>
<row><cell>Greece</cell><cell></cell><cell>Plutus</cell><cell>Irene</cell></row>
<row><cell>India</cell><cell>Vishnu</cell><cell>Christina</cell></row>
<row><cell>India</cell><cell></cell><cell>Tsi</cell><cell>Eswara</cell></row>
<row><cell>Italy</cell><cell>Pope</cell><cell></cell><cell>Virgin Mary</cell></row>
<row><cell>Japan</cell><cell></cell><cell>Child</cell><cell>Madonna</cell></row>
<row><cell>Nineveh</cell><cell>Nimrod</cell><cell>Nimrod</cell><cell>Semiramis</cell></row>
<row><cell>Palestine</cell><cell>Baal</cell></row>
<row><cell>Persia</cell><cell>Sun</cell><cell></cell><cell>Moon</cell></row>
<row><cell>Persia</cell><cell>Sun God</cell></row>
<row><cell>Persia</cell><cell></cell><cell>Child</cell><cell>Madonna</cell></row>
<row><cell>Philistia</cell><cell>Dagon</cell></row>
<row><cell>Rome</cell><cell>Jupiter</cell><cell>Jupiter Puer</cell><cell>Fortuna</cell></row>
<row><cell>Scandinavia</cell><cell>Woden</cell><cell>Thor</cell><cell>Frieda</cell></row>
<row><cell>Thibet</cell><cell></cell><cell>Child</cell><cell>Madonna</cell></row>
</table>

<pb n='415'/><anchor id='Pg415'/>

<p>
The practices of Nimrod were continued in secret by
Semiramis; and as every caution had to be taken, the
things done were veiled in mystery. Each act and person
was represented only in symbols known to the initiated.
Here originated the various secret societies, with their
blood-curdling oaths of secrecy&mdash;Masonry, Oddfellowship,
Jesuitism, Knights of Malta, and so on. These are lineal
descendants of the <q>mysteries</q> of pagan sensuality, all of
them abominations to God. Semiramis, to further her
schemes, pretended that Nimrod, the father-son, had been
raised from the dead in the form of the sun, which thus
became an object of worship. She represented herself as
the moon, which was also adored. This was the original
Trinity&mdash;Nimrod the father, Nimrod, or Tammuz, the son
and Semiramis the mother, the power, or spirit, back of all.
As the people multiplied and scattered they took with them
this heathen Trinity which appears in various nations in
the partial list shown on the preceding page.
</p>

<p>
These under inspiration of the Devil, put the false seed
of the woman&mdash;Nimrod, Tammuz, etc.,&mdash;in the stead of the
true Seed, pushed Jehovah aside, then into the background,
and then out altogether. The Devil, through the Pope of
Rome, substituted forms of paganism for the simplicity of
true Christianity. <q>Such things are,</q> says Cardinal Newman,
<q>the very instruments and appendages of demon worship,</q>
but <q>sanctified by adoption into the church.</q> Roman
Catholicism is a heathen religion. Protestantism also
worships Molech, the fire god, Tammuz, the deity of torture,
whom popes, cardinals, bishops, priests, clergy, ministers,
and laymen unite in honoring and worshipping under
the delusion that they are worshipping Jehovah, God
of Abraham, the true God of the Bible. However, ignorantly,
<q>they worship devils.</q>&mdash;1 Cor. 10:20.
</p>

<p>
8:15, 16. <hi rend='sans'>Then said He unto me, Hast thou seen this, O
Son of man? turn thee yet again, and thou shalt see
greater abominations than these. And He brought me into
the inner court of the Lord's house, and behold, at the
door of the temple of the Lord, between the porch and the
altar, were about five and twenty men, with their backs
toward the temple of the Lord, and their faces toward the
east; and they worshipped the sun toward the east.</hi>&mdash;In
the court itself (1 Ki. 6:36), in the very presence of the
blood-bought sacrifice, these men were gathered. Only
priests and Levites might be in this court. They typified
the believers and spirit-begotten ones of the Christian
Church. They were divided into about twenty-five courses
or sections and served in rotation. These typed the divisions
of Christians into about twenty-five principal denominations.
<pb n='416'/><anchor id='Pg416'/>
In the United States these are Adventists, Baptists,
Brethren (Dunkards), Catholics (Greek), Christian,
Churches of Christ Scientist, Churches of God, Congregationalists,
Disciples of Christ, Evangelical, Friends, German
Evangelical Protestant, German Evangelical Synod,
Latter Day Saints, Lutherans, Scandinavian Evangelical,
Menonites, Moravians, Methodists, Pentecostals, Presbyterians,
Protestant Episcopals, Reformed, Salvation Army,
and United Brethren. With their backs toward the Temple
of the Lord (Jer. 2:27), these treat with contempt and
scorn the little company of God's true saints, rich in faith,
<q>the Temple.</q> To turn the back is a gross insult. Their
faces are toward the east. (Jer. 8:2.) All these denominations
worship the fire-god, the sun, the heathen god whose
identity with paganism appears foregoing.
</p>

<p>
8:17. <hi rend='sans'>Then He said unto me, Hast thou seen this, O Son
of man? Is it a light thing to the house of Judah that they
commit the abominations which they commit here? for
they have filled the land with violence, and have returned
to provoke Me to anger; and, lo, they put the branch to
their nose.</hi>&mdash;So lightly do modern Babylonians, apostate
religionists, regard their abominable beliefs, that they will
not even give consideration to the presentation of the
truth about Jehovah and His Divine Plan of the Ages. It
is the church&mdash;clergy and members&mdash;who brought on the
barbarous world-war. They could have stood like a rock
for peace; but the clergy, with devilish exhortations, urged
their fellow-savages to bloodshed. The Divine judgment
has gone against them and soon will swallow them up
in the earthquake (revolution) and fire (anarchy) of the
Time of Trouble. The last clause should read. <q>They
send a stench to My nostrils.</q>
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url="images/img431.png" rend="width: 80%">
    <head>Destructive Criticism Of The Bible</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
8:18. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore will I also deal in fury; Mine eyes
shall not spare, neither will I have pity: and though they
cry in Mine ears with a loud voice, yet will I not hear
them.</hi>&mdash;The fury of <q>Christians</q> in this savage war will
be visited upon them in the succeeding revolution and
anarchy. When the real Time of Trouble is on, after
the war, Christendom will realize the terrible truth that
it is the punishment of Divine Justice&mdash;and will pray
mightily to God. Their prayers cannot be favorably answered
(Prov. 1:28) until <q>the great tribulation</q> (Rev. 7:14)
has finished its work of <q>bruising to heal.</q>&mdash;Hos. 6:1.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>In the world despised, neglected,</q></l>
<l>Deemed its refuse and its dross,</l>
<l>She whose Lord the earth rejected</l>
<l><q rend='post'>Shares His sorrow, bears His loss.</q></l>
</lg>
</quote>

</div>

<pb n='417'/><anchor id='Pg417'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 9&mdash;The Man With The Inkhorn</head>

<p>
9:1. <hi rend='sans'>He cried also in mine ears with a loud voice, saying,
Cause them that have charge over the city to draw
near, even every man with his destroying weapon in his
hand.</hi>&mdash;Chapter 9 depicts the slaughter of the idolaters of
Jerusalem. It types the literal slaughter of the spiritual idolaters
of Christendom in the Time of Trouble, and also their
destruction as tares (Matt. 13:40) by the Word of Truth,
which will manifest their true condition and cause them
to cease the pretense of being Christians. The picture
corresponds to the harvesting of wheat and tares by the
sickle of Truth (Rev. 14:15), and the burning of the tares.
There is a two-fold significance here&mdash;those having material
charge of Christendom, and those having spiritual charge
(D. 527.) The first class comprises the rulers of the great
nations; the second class, the feet members of the Little
Flock (Luke 12:32)&mdash;<q>All things are yours.</q> (1 Cor. 3:21);
<q>Inheritors of the Kingdom</q> (Gal. 5:21); <q>Given charge of
all His goods</q> (Luke 12:44), the Bible truths. The first
class has as weapons the armies and navies. The second
has the Sword of the Spirit, the Word of God.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url="images/img432.png" rend="width: 60%">
    <head>Seats Free And No Collection Was Never Babylon's Slogan</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
9:2. <hi rend='sans'>And, behold, six men came from the way of the
higher gate, which lieth toward the North, and every man
a slaughter weapon in his hand; and one man among them
was clothed with linen, with a writer's inkhorn by his
side: and they went in, and stood beside the brazen altar.</hi>&mdash;The
six with earthly weapons are the rulers of the six
great nations&mdash;Russia, Germany, Austria, France, England
and Italy. The six with the Sword of the Spirit symbolize
all the Elijah class, the six, with one other, making
up the seven, the complete number. These have their
commission from <q>the north,</q> from the seat of Divine Dominion,
from God Himself. Practically all Bible translators
and commentators agree that the one with a writer's
inkhorn by his side was not one of the six, but a seventh,
garbed as a priest, or as a clerk or officer in an army of
the East. The linen signifies the imputed righteousness of
Christ, (Rev. 19:8.) The writer's inkhorn symbolizes that
the seventh man's function was to write. God identified
him thus: When <hi rend='smallcaps'>The Watch Tower Bible and Tract
Society</hi> was at Allegheny, Pa., an open Bible was to be
<pb n='418'/><anchor id='Pg418'/>
painted on one of the large front window of the office. A
sign painter, not in the Truth, painted the open Bible; and
without instruction from any one, of his own volition, he
painted the Bible as open at Ezekiel, Chapter 9. The man
in linen was the Laodicean servant, the Lord's faithful
and wise steward, Pastor Russell. When Pastor Russell
saw this, he turned pale. Ezekiel seeing the man in linen,
types Pastor Russell thereafter seeing himself to be the
antitype of that man&mdash;one of the most prolific writers of
the Age, and the only one to write and publish widely the
glad tidings of the actual Second Presence of Christ. The
seven men stood beside the brazen altar&mdash;there, in connection
with God's Plan, based upon the Ransom sacrifice
to receive their Divinely appointed commission.
</p>

<p>
9:3. <hi rend='sans'>And the glory of the God of Israel was gone up
from the cherub, whereupon He was, to the threshold
of the house. And He called to the man clothed with linen,
which had the writer's inkhorn by his side.</hi>&mdash;One of the
four living creatures is here designated a <q>cherub.</q> This
one was Justice, about to operate upon the iniquities of
ecclesiasticism. The threshold of the house refers to the
door of the Holy, the condition of the spirit-begotten. <q>The
spirit of glory and of God is upon thee.</q> (1 Pet. 4:14)
The message was to sound forth from the Lord's consecrated
people during the Harvest of the Gospel Age, from
1878 to 1918.
</p>

<p>
9:4. <hi rend='sans'>And the Lord said unto him, Go through the midst
of the city, through the midst of Jerusalem, and set a mark
upon the foreheads of the men that sigh and that cry for
all the abominations that be done in the midst thereof.</hi>&mdash;The
center of Christendom is the nations of the United
States, Canada, Great Britain, France, Germany, Russia
and Scandinavia. Hither and thither, traveling and
preaching for nearly forty years Pastor Russell obeyed
this command; and through the printed page of books,
tracts and newspapers he went into every corner of the
world. <q>Set a mark</q>, literally <q>set a <q><foreign lang='he' rend='italic'>tav</foreign></q> upon the foreheads.</q>
The <q><foreign lang='he' rend='italic'>Tav</foreign></q> was the twenty-second letter of the
Hebrew alphabet, and in its earlier form had the shape of
a cross (†). The forehead signifies the intellect (Rev. 7:3;
14:1). Pastor Russell's great work was to imprint indelibly
in the minds of certain ones the truth about the Cross,
the sacrifice of the Christ, Head and Body, and the part of
the Church therein. It was the duty of the clerk or officer
of an oriental army to mark the people, either for slaughter
or to be left untouched. The <q>mourners in Zion</q> (Isa.
61:3) are those faithful ones in Christendom that appreciate
that conditions are evil in churchianity, perhaps without
<pb n='419'/><anchor id='Pg419'/>
understanding just how. All these are to be marked
in their minds with the knowledge of the Present Truth.
</p>

<p>
9:5. <hi rend='sans'>And to the others He said in mine hearing, Go ye
after him through the city, and smite: let not your eye
spare, neither have ye pity.</hi>&mdash;After Pastor Russell's writings
have reached an individual, the other members of the
Elijah class, the <q>Truth people,</q> approach him with the
Sword of the Spirit, the Word of God. This is to each individual
a <q>savor of life to life, or of death to death.</q> (2
Cor. 2:14-16.) Those not believing Present Truth will become
only the more confirmed in error. (2 Thes. 2:11.)
They will be smitten by the Sword of the Spirit, which in
them will operate at this time to destroy any pretense of
being Christians, and cause them to take their proper
stand as worldings&mdash;to be destroyed as tares. In this,
God's <q>strange work</q> (Isa. 28:21), the Word of God will
operate seemingly without pity, to separate the people
into two classes, in Present Truth or out of it. In a literal
sense the rulers of this evil Age will pitilessly carry the
Sword throughout the lengths and breadths of Christendom.
</p>

<p>
9:6. <hi rend='sans'>Slay utterly old and young, both maids and little
children, and women: but come not near any man upon
whom is the mark; and begin at My Sanctuary. Then they
began at the ancient men which were before the house.</hi>&mdash;Here
are depicted the savagery of the revolutions and the
anarchy succeeding the great war. Though they are to be
literally martyred, the consecrated in Present Truth cannot
be hurt of either slaughter weapon; their hopes and
their treasures are in Heaven (Matt. 6:20), and no earthly
calamity can in any wise work them ill. Symbolically the
Sword of the Spirit will do no harm to mature Christians&mdash;<q>men,</q>&mdash;but
many young or undeveloped believers, not
having the Holy Spirit, regardless of sex, will fall as tares,
as will all of the idol worshipers of Christendom. The
literal trouble will begin with a revolutionary outburst of anarchy
against the churches and the clergy (1 Pet. 4:17), as
responsible for the trouble because of having preached the
people into the war, in the face of innumerable Scriptures
against fighting with carnal weapons (Matt. 5:39, 44; John
18:11; 2 Cor. 10:4) and of those teaching Christians to
love one another and to forgive trespasses (Luke 6:27-38),
personal or national. (Rom. 12:17-21.) The Sword of the
Spirit will begin its work with the sanctuary class, the
professing Christians (1 Pet. 4:17). It will begin with <q>the
ancient men</q>, the representatives of the people&mdash;the
clergy, doctors of divinity, priests, bishops and other
ecclesiastics.
</p>

<pb n='420'/><anchor id='Pg420'/>

<p>
9:7. <hi rend='sans'>And He said unto them, Defile the house, and fill
the courts with the slain: go ye forth. And they went
forth, and slew in the city.</hi>&mdash;Typically the house of God
was defiled by a dead body. The Temple, the Body of
Christ, the true Church, is defiled by the presence in it of
any one who has become spiritually dead. The priests and
Levites alone might enter the priests' court; and this
types that many professing to be consecrated Christians
will lose all claim to being followers of Christ&mdash;be slain
religiously. So many will thus lose belief that Christendom
will be filled with them. Literally the sanctuaries and
the streets of Christendom will be filled with the slain of
the Time of Trouble.
</p>

<p>
9:8. <hi rend='sans'>And it came to pass, while they were slaying
them, and I was left, that I fell upon my face, and cried,
and said, Ah Lord God! wilt Thou destroy all the residue
of Israel in Thy pouring out of Thy fury upon Jerusalem?</hi>&mdash;It
will almost seem that none in Christendom will escape
alive; and, indeed, <q>Except those days be shortened, no
flesh should be saved.</q>&mdash;Matt. 24:22.
</p>

<p>
9:9, 10. <hi rend='sans'>Then said He unto me, The iniquity of the
house of Israel and Judah is exceeding great, and the land
is full of blood, and the city full of perverseness: for they
say, The Lord hath forsaken the earth, and the Lord seeth
not. And as for Me also, Mine eyes shall not spare, neither
will I have any pity, but I will recompense their way upon
their head.</hi>&mdash;On account of the light of the Gospel of Love
they possess, both Romanism and Protestantism are guilty
to an extraordinary degree before God. Christendom,
through its savage wars, is drenched with blood. Churchianity
is full of wilful sin. God will seem to have left the
social order to its own destruction.
</p>

<p>
9:11. <hi rend='sans'>And, behold, the man clothed with linen, which
had the inkhorn by His side, reported the matter, saying,
I have done as Thou hast commanded me.</hi>&mdash;Pastor Russell
was faithful to his great task of writing and publishing the
Truth and imprinting the <q><foreign lang='he' rend='italic'>tav</foreign></q> of Present Truth in the
minds of the spirit-begotten. In October, 1916, he died,
and beyond the veil has, ere this, undoubtedly, reported in
the presence of Christ that he has done the work he was
given to do.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>Faithful when with tears thine eyes were dim,</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Faithful when joys' cup o'erflowed its brim;</l>
<l>Faithful when God seemed to veil His face,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Faithful when He crowned thy work with grace,</l>
<l>Faithful till was fled life's fleeting breath,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'><q rend='post'>Eager hands were folded still in death.</q></l>
</lg>
</quote>

</div>

<pb n='421'/><anchor id='Pg421'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 10&mdash;Scattering Coals Of Fire</head>

<p>
10:1. <hi rend='sans'>Then I looked, and, behold, in the firmament that
was above the head of the cherubim there appeared over
them as it were a sapphire stone, as the appearance of
the likeness of a throne.</hi>&mdash;Verses 1, 8-11, 12, 14-22 are explained
in Chapter 1. The repetition of the symbols of the
Justice, Wisdom, Love and Power of God, of the wings
(Word of God), of the wheels, and the wondrous light, are
assurances that in the anarchous destruction of Christendom,
our Father is acting wisely, justly, lovingly and in
accordance with His Word and Plan for the good of mankind.&mdash;T. 125.
</p>

<p>
10:2. <hi rend='sans'>And He spake unto the man clothed with linen,
and said, Go in between the wheels, even under the cherub,
and fill thine hand with coals of fire from between the
cherubim, and scatter them over the city. And he went in
in my sight.</hi>&mdash;Ezekiel, typing Pastor Russell, sees himself
as acting in the manner here described. He was to go in
between the wheels, to do his work in accordance with the
Divine Plan, to act under the dictates of the Divine Justice,
<q>the cherub.</q> The coals of fire are symbolic of the
fiery trials, distress, <q>great tribulation,</q> with which Christendom
will be overwhelmed in the last period of the Time
of Trouble, and the prophecies of these events. (Rev. 8:5.)
These Divinely permitted troubles have the approval of Divine
Wisdom, Justice, Love and Power, as necessary from
every viewpoint, and the inevitable retribution of a long-forbearing
God. Pastor Russell was to do this work,&mdash;<q>fill
his hand,</q> with all his might, to devote himself wholly to
this task. Over the whole world was scattered the warning
of impending trouble.&mdash;D. 57.
</p>

<p>
10:3. <hi rend='sans'>Now the cherubim stood on the right side of the
house, when the man went in; and the cloud filled the
inner court.</hi>&mdash;The cherubim stood by the nominal Temple
class&mdash;to inquire and visit the offences of Christendom.
The house was on their left, the place of disfavor. When
no priests were in the Holy, it was filled with a cloud.
In 1 Kings 8:10 and in 2 Chron. 5:11-14 the cloud filled the
Holy, and the priests were unable to serve there because
<pb n='422'/><anchor id='Pg422'/>
of it. When the cloud filled the Court, no one could see to
serve in it. This types that in the Harvest period, from
1878 to 1918, while Pastor Russell was dispensing as part
of the <q>food in due season</q> the impending downfall of
Christendom, those who had been serving in the believing
Court condition&mdash;clergy and other church workers&mdash;were
no longer permitted to do so. It corresponds to the passing
of the stewardship from the clergy to Pastor Russell
in 1878. This applies also to verse 4, where the presence
of the cloud also types the presence of Jehovah to visit
punishment for wickedness.&mdash;B. 138.
</p>

<p>
10:4. <hi rend='sans'>Then the glory of the Lord went up from the
cherub, and stood over the threshold of the house; and the
house was filled with the cloud, and the court was full of
the brightness of the Lord's glory.</hi>&mdash;Pastor Russell saw
more clearly than any one in this end of the Age the glorious
Gospel of God in the Ransom for all (Court and altar).
</p>

<p>
10:5. <hi rend='sans'>And the sound of the cherubim's wings was heard
even to the outer court, as the voice of the Almighty God
when he speaketh.</hi>&mdash;Here is indicated the sounding forth
of the Word of God through Pastor Russell's proclamation
of Present Truth. The inner Court typed the condition of
faith and justification, and the outer Court typed the condition
of those not fully believing, nor directly serving God.
The preaching and writings of Pastor Russell were heard
by all classes of believers and unbelievers. It was the
voice of Jehovah, represented as almighty to save, that
was heard throughout the world.
</p>

<p>
10:6. <hi rend='sans'>And it came to pass that when He had commanded
the man clothed with linen, saying, Take fire from
between the wheels, from between the cherubim; then he
went in, and stood beside the wheels.</hi>&mdash;In the Divine
Plan of the Ages Pastor Russell was to find clearly indicated
the great tribulation then close at hand.
</p>

<p>
10:7. <hi rend='sans'>And one cherub stretched forth his hand from between
the cherubim unto the fire that was between the
cherubim, and took thereof and put it into the hands of
him clothed with linen; who took it, and went out.</hi>&mdash;Justice
gave to Pastor Russell the knowledge of impending
troubles, to go out and publish to Christendom.
</p>

<p>
10:8. <hi rend='sans'>And there appeared in the cherubim the form of
a man's hand under their wings.</hi>&mdash;The work of witness
here depicted is carried out by human beings, under the
power and protection of the Word of God.
</p>

<p>
10:9-11. <hi rend='sans'>And when I looked, behold the four wheels by
the cherubim, one wheel by one cherub, and another wheel
by another cherub: and the appearance of the wheels was
<pb n='423'/><anchor id='Pg423'/>
as the colour of a beryl stone. And as for their appearance,
they four had one likeness, as if a wheel had been
in the midst of a wheel. When they went, they went upon
their four sides; they turned not as they went, but to the
place whither the head looked they followed it; they
turned not as they went.</hi>&mdash;See Chapter 1 for explanation.
The leading face in the head was the man's face, typical
of Divine Love. This is the dominating attribute of God's
character, directing the course of the other three.
</p>

<p>
10:12. <hi rend='sans'>And their whole body, and their backs, and their
hands, and their wings, and the wheels, were full of eyes
round about, even the wheels they four had.</hi>&mdash;Every part
of the Divine character, as well as every operation of the
Divine attributes and of the human beings through which
God acts is full of Wisdom.&mdash;B. 305.
</p>

<p>
10:13. <hi rend='sans'>As for the wheels, it was cried unto them in my
hearing, O wheel.</hi>&mdash;Very emphatic was the Divine directing
of the attention toward the wheels&mdash;the Divine Plan
of the Ages. Pastor Russell always directed the Bible
student's mind toward the great Plan.
</p>

<p>
10:14-22. <hi rend='sans'>And every one had four faces; the first face
was the face of a cherub, and the second face was the face
of a man, and the third the face of a lion, and the fourth
the face of an eagle. And the cherubim were lifted up.
This is the living creature that I saw by the river of Chebar.
And when the cherubim went, the wheels went by
them: and the cherubim lifted up their wings to mount up
from the earth, the same wheels also turned not from beside
them. When they stood, these stood; and when they
were lifted up, these lifted up themselves also; for the
spirit of the living creature was in them. Then the glory
of the Lord departed from off the threshold of the house,
and stood over the cherubim. And the cherubim lifted up
their wings, and mounted up from the earth in my sight:
when they went out, the wheels also were beside them,
and every one stood at the door of the east gate of the
Lord's house, and the glory of the God of Israel was over
them above. This is the living creature that I saw under
the God of Israel by the river of Chebar; and I knew that
they were the cherubim. Every one had four faces apiece,
and every one had four wings; and the likeness of the
hands of a man was under their wings. And the likeness
of their faces was the same faces which I saw by the river
of Chebar, their appearance and themselves: they went
every one straight forward.</hi>&mdash;See explanation of these
verses in Chapter 1. (Hos. 9:12) <q>Yea, woe also to them
when I depart from them.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='424'/><anchor id='Pg424'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 11&mdash;The Wicked Counsel</head>

<p>
11:1. <hi rend='sans'>Moreover the Spirit lifted me up, and brought
me unto the east gate of the Lord's house, which looketh
eastward: and behold at the door of the gate five and
twenty men; among whom I saw Jaazaniah, the son of
Azur, and Pelatiah, the son of Benaiah, princes of the
people.</hi>&mdash;The east gate types Christ, the entrance to true
Christianity. (John 10:9.) At the door of the gate were
the leading sects, Jaazaniah, the son of Azur (helper) types
the idea that by self-help man can please God. Pelatiah
(Jah delivers), the son of Benaiah (Jah is intelligent),
types the belief that earthly wisdom will deliver the world
from its difficulties. (1 Cor. 1:21.) These were <q>princes
among the people</q>&mdash;very popular ideas.
</p>

<p>
11:2. <hi rend='sans'>Then said He unto me, Son of man, these are the
men that devise mischief, and give wicked counsel in this
city.</hi>&mdash;These teachings have actuated many of the erroneous
beliefs and wicked acts of nominal Christians.
</p>

<p>
11:3. <hi rend='sans'>Which say, It is not near; let us build houses:
this city is the caldron, and we be the flesh.</hi>&mdash;Ecclesiasticism's
thought is that the Time of Trouble is not near,
and the destruction of Christendom is not to be thought
of. (1 Thes. 5:3.) <q>Let us build houses</q> is an expression
implying confidence in the permanence of things as
they are. (2 Pet. 3:4.) <q>This city is the caldron, and we
be the flesh</q> (Jer. 1:13) is a proverb, here applied to the
iron sides of the caldron keeping away the fire, or in
antitype civil and military powers, protecting from actual
anarchy (fire), however hot things may become.
</p>

<p>
11:4, 5. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore prophesy against them, prophesy, O
son of man. And the Spirit of the Lord fell upon me, and
said unto me, Speak: Thus saith the Lord; Thus have
ye said, O house of Israel: for I know the things that
come unto your mind, every one of them.</hi>&mdash;The false
teachings of the clergy are nothing new. Every one of
them is the old worship of Nimrod and Baal.
</p>

<pb n='425'/><anchor id='Pg425'/>

<p>
11:6. <hi rend='sans'>Ye have multiplied your slain in this city, and ye
have filled the streets thereof with the slain.</hi>&mdash;There never
was a war that a clergy did not preach <q>their people</q> into
it, and multiply the slain. Furthermore, the number is
legion of those who would have liked to gain spiritual
life, but the clergy have discouraged (John 7:48), and in
millions of cases caused their actual death.
</p>

<p>
11:7. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore thus saith the Lord God; Your slain
whom ye have laid in the midst of it, they are the flesh,
and this city the caldron: but I will bring you forth out
of the midst of it.</hi>&mdash;Another sense in which the Jerusalem
Jews used this proverb was that the Jews taken captive
into Babylon were worthless, and they in Jerusalem were
the valuable flesh remaining. (Mi. 3:3.) God here tells
that the only ones to remain in Christendom will be the
literally dead, or those who are dead to the claims of
Mystic Babylon. These have the best chance of surviving
the trouble. The walls, defences, military and police, will
be broken down by war and revolution; and nothing can
save the adherents of ecclesiasticism from their fate.
</p>

<p>
11:8. <hi rend='sans'>Ye have feared the sword; and I will bring a
Sword upon you, saith the Lord.</hi>&mdash;The devotees of established
priestcraft fear both the literal sword and the Sword
of the Spirit. The armies of the nations will be in open
revolt against the established powers, religious, political
and economic. Also the Sword of the Spirit, the Word of
God, will cut through all pretense and bring about the
death of religion in all not begotten of the Holy Spirit.
</p>

<p>
11:9. <hi rend='sans'>And I will bring you out of the midst thereof, and
deliver you into the hands of strangers, and will execute
judgments among you.</hi>&mdash;Christendom win fall literally into
the hands of revolutionists and anarchists, Industrial
Workers of the World, Syndicalists, Socialists, unfriendly
to established systems, and spiritually into the power of
the Word of God in the hands of His <q>strangers.</q> (1 Pet.
1:1; 2:11,) a <q>just recompense of reward.</q> (Heb. 2:2.)
</p>

<p>
11:10, 11. <hi rend='sans'>Ye shall fall by the sword; I will judge you in
the border of Israel, and ye shall know that I am the Lord.
This city shall not be your caldron, neither shall ye be
the flesh in the midst thereof; but I will judge you in the
border of Israel.</hi>&mdash;The Jews taken captive out of Jerusalem
were tried and slain at Riblah (a bare place) outside of
Palestine, typifying that the destroying judgments on
Christendom will come upon her after her institutions have
gone to pieces, and she is desolated.
</p>

<p>
11:12. <hi rend='sans'>And ye shall know that I am the Lord: for ye
have not walked in My statutes, neither executed My judgments,
but have done after the manner of the heathen
<pb n='426'/><anchor id='Pg426'/>
that are round about you.</hi>&mdash;The people of Christendom will
finally appreciate that their distress is a punishment from
God, because of not having followed the plain injunctions
of the Bible, having mistaught the Word of God, and having
lived no better than unbelievers.
</p>

<p>
11:13. <hi rend='sans'>And it came to pass, when I prophesied, that
Pelatiah, the son of Benaiah, died. Then fell I down upon
my face, and cried with a loud voice, and said, Ah Lord
God! wilt Thou make a full end of the remnant of Israel?</hi>&mdash;While
Pastor Russell's reasonable and Divinely appointed
teachings are doing their good work throughout Christendom
the idea that human wisdom, Prussian culture, etc.,
can save the old order of things, will be seen lifeless.
</p>

<p>
11:14. <hi rend='sans'>Again the Word of the Lord came unto me,
saying.</hi>&mdash;Verses 14 to 25 are the message of comfort and
hope to those who are now out of harmony with ecclesiasticism.
</p>

<p>
11:15. <hi rend='sans'>Son of man, thy brethren, even thy brethren,
the men of thy kindred, and all the house of Israel wholly,
are they unto whom the inhabitants of Jerusalem have
said, Get you far from the Lord: unto us is this land given
in possession.</hi>&mdash;The Jews in captivity were despised by
those remaining in the <q>holy</q> city, Jerusalem. They type
the people of Christendom who honestly own themselves
to be of the world and are despised by the <q>best people,</q>
the educated, religious <q>holy</q> Churchianity. <q>Get you far
from the Lord</q> is the attitude of the tares toward those
who do not pretend as much, but who are often much
better in God's sight. The <q>best people</q> not merely own
most of the earth now, but expect to own Heaven too&mdash;with
the now worldly people forever consigned to a devil-imagined
hell of eternal torment.
</p>

<p>
11:16. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore say, Thus saith the Lord God; Although
I have cast them far off among the heathen, and
although I have scattered them among the countries, yet
will I be to them as a little Sanctuary in the countries
where they shall come.</hi>&mdash;God especially favors the honest-hearted,
humble-minded, however far they may now be
from Him in outward appearance. Christ avoided the
Scribes and the Pharisees, but freely associated with the
publicans and sinners.
</p>

<p>
11:17. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore say, Thus saith the Lord God; I will
even gather you from the people, and assemble you out
of the countries where ye have been scattered, and I will
give you the land of Israel.</hi>&mdash;In the coming Kingdom God
will gather first the outcasts from their condition of disfavor,
even from the dead, and will give them possession
of the earth before the proud-minded ecclesiastics are permitted
<pb n='427'/><anchor id='Pg427'/>
to return from the dead. This is to have also a
literal fulfillment on Fleshly Israel.&mdash;Z. '94-76.
</p>

<p>
11:18. <hi rend='sans'>And they shall come thither, and they shall take
away all the detestable things thereof and all the abominations
thereof from thence.</hi>&mdash;The common people, free
from the perverse influence of priestcraft, in Christ's Millennial
Kingdom will abolish all the clergy-fostered ideas
and practices now so abominable to God.
</p>

<p>
11:19. <hi rend='sans'>And I will give them one heart, and I will put a
new spirit within you; and I will take the stony heart out
of their flesh, and will give them a heart of flesh.</hi>&mdash;They
will be single-hearted to serve God and do His will alone.
(Jer. 32:39.) From having the spirit or mind of natural
men they will be given the Holy Spirit, when God <q>pours
out His Spirit upon all flesh.</q> (A. 333; Z. '03-171.) From
being hard-hearted they will become tender-hearted, forgiving
one another even as God, for Christ's sake will
forgive them.&mdash;Eph. 4:32.
</p>

<p>
11:20. <hi rend='sans'>That they may walk in My statutes, and keep
Mine ordinances, and do them: and they shall be My
people, and I will be their God.</hi>&mdash;They will keep God's
Law of Divine love. The <q>best people,</q> who now regard
themselves as God's people, in the Age to come will learn
that God opposes the proud and favors the humble.
</p>

<p>
11:21. <hi rend='sans'>But as for them whose heart walketh after the
heart of their detestable things and their abominations,
I will recompense their way upon their own heads, saith
the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;Those who at heart love established ecclesiasticism
are counted as having the heart, mind or will
of the author of priestcraft, the Devil. <q>Ye generation of
serpents (devils), how scarcely shall ye escape the condemnation
of Gehenna (Second Death).</q>&mdash;Matt. 23:33.
</p>

<p>
11:22, 23. <hi rend='sans'>Then did the cherubim lift up their wings,
and the wheels beside them; and the glory of the God of
Israel was over them above. And the glory of the Lord
went up from the midst of the city, and stood upon the
mountain which is on the east side of the city.</hi>&mdash;God, and
Divine favor, has ceased to be in or with Christendom
(D. 527), but is upon and with the true Kingdom (mountain)
of God (A. 318), toward the east (Zech. 14:4), the antitypical
Mount of Olives.&mdash;D. 653.
</p>

<p>
11:24, 25. <hi rend='sans'>Afterwards the spirit took me up, and brought
me in a vision by the Spirit of God into Chaldea, to them
of the captivity. So the vision that I had seen went up
from me. Then I spake unto them of the captivity all
the things that the Lord had shewed me.</hi>&mdash;These things
seen in the Scriptures are now preached and published to
the captives in Mystic Babylon.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='428'/><anchor id='Pg428'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 12&mdash;Christendom's Blind Flight</head>

<p>
12:1, 2. <hi rend='sans'>The word of the Lord also came unto me
saying, Son of man, thou dwellest in the midst of a rebellious
house, which have eyes to see, and see not; they
have ears to hear, and hear not; for they are a rebellious
house.</hi>&mdash;In Chapter 12:1-16 is depicted the blind flight of
Christendom into revolution and anarchy. Pastor Russell
and his co-workers once dwelt in the midst of the rebellious
nominal house, or church, of God, with eyes blinded and
ears made deaf by their spiritual defection.&mdash;Matt. 13:13.
</p>

<p>
12:3. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore, thou son of man, prepare thee stuff for
removing, and remove by day in their sight; and thou
shalt remove from thy place to another place in their
sight: It may be they will consider, though they be a
rebellious house.</hi>&mdash;He found in the Bible the Truth of God,
which exhorts to <q>come out of her, O My people</q> (Rev.
18:4); and in obedience, he came out of his church home
into a condition of separateness, by every means of publicity
(in their sight) drawing the attention to his removal,
in the hope that those left behind might turn truly back
to God.
</p>

<p>
12:4. <hi rend='sans'>Then shalt thou bring forth thy stuff by day in
their sight, as stuff for removing: and thou shalt go forth
at even in their sight, as they that go forth into captivity.</hi>&mdash;In
their estimation, he did this as one taken by the Evil
One.
</p>

<p>
12:5. <hi rend='sans'>Dig thou through the wall in their sight, and
carry out thereby.</hi>&mdash;He dug through the creeds walls and
thus <q>came out of her.</q>
</p>

<p>
12:6. <hi rend='sans'>In their sight shalt thou bear it upon thy shoulders,
and carry it forth in the twilight: thou shalt cover
thy face, that thou see not the ground: for I have set thee
for a sign unto the house of Israel.</hi>&mdash;To them he was one
not knowing whither he went, with eyes blinded; whereas
his action and his publishing of the Truth was but God's
way of beseeching Christendom and warning her of her
own fate.
</p>

<p>
12:7. <hi rend='sans'>And I did so as I was commanded: I brought forth
my stuff by day, as stuff for captivity, and in the even I
digged through the wall with mine hand; I brought it forth
<pb n='429'/><anchor id='Pg429'/>
in the twilight, and I bare it upon my shoulder in their
sight.</hi>&mdash;Pastor Russell and the Truth people did this with
their limited power (hand), and laboriously (upon shoulder)
made their way with their goods, the precious Truths,
<q>out of her.</q>
</p>

<p>
12:8-9. <hi rend='sans'>And in the morning came the word of the Lord
unto me, saying, Son of man, hath not the house of Israel,
the rebellious house, said unto thee, What doest thou?</hi>&mdash;The
nominal church (home) of Spiritual Israel have often
inquired of Pastor Russell and of the Truth people, <q>What
doest thou?</q>
</p>

<p>
12:10. <hi rend='sans'>Say thou unto them, Thus saith the Lord God;
This burden concerneth the prince in Jerusalem, and all
the house of Israel that are among them.</hi>&mdash;The import of
the answer concerns the exalted class (prince, exalted
one), the lords in Christendom, the clergy, and all professing
Christians that are with them.
</p>

<p>
12:11. <hi rend='sans'>Say, I am your sign, like as I have done, so
shall it be done unto them: they shall remove and go into
captivity.</hi>&mdash;What has been, is a lesson for them; as the
Royal Priesthood has done, so shall it be done unto them;
they shall move down from their exalted place and go into
captivity to the laborite and revolutionary elements. The
Jews were literally to go into captivity into ancient Babylon,
which they did.
</p>

<p>
12:12. <hi rend='sans'>And the prince that is among them shell bear
upon his shoulder in the twilight, and shall go forth: they
shall dig through the wall to carry out thereby; he shall
cover his face, that he see not the ground with his eyes.</hi>&mdash;As
to the Jews, their ruler Zedekiah was by night to try to
escape from Jerusalem, but he should not see the way. Regarding
Christendom's clergy, they shall at the close of
their day, abandon Christendom in the time of revolution,
to save what they can for themselves, and <q>get out of her.</q>
They shall find a still more worldly way out of their creed
walls and shall be self-blinded to the real condition of
society (the earth).
</p>

<p>
12:13. <hi rend='sans'>My net also will I spread upon him, and he shall
be taken in My snare: and I will bring him to Babylon to
the land of the Chaldeans; yet shall he not see it, though
he shall die there.</hi>&mdash;Like a snare shall revolution, in the
guise of freedom for all, come upon them; and, utterly
blind to the significance of world events, they shall be
forced into revolution and anarchy, and there shall this
lordly class come to its end. (Hos. 7:12.) The literal
application upon King Zedekiah is of course understood;
for he went to Babylon, but never saw it, because his
eyes were put out.
</p>

<pb n='430'/><anchor id='Pg430'/>

<p>
12:14. <hi rend='sans'>And I will scatter toward every wind all that are
about him to help him, and all his bands; and I will draw
out the sword after them.</hi>&mdash;God will scatter in war, tumult
and confusion and in error; all that adhere to the clergy
class, and all their congregations (bands); and against
them shall He direct weapons of war and the Word of
God, the Sword of the Spirit.
</p>

<p>
12:15. <hi rend='sans'>And they shall know that I am the Lord, when
I shall scatter them among the nations, and disperse them
in the countries.</hi>&mdash;And they shall appreciate that Jehovah
is God, when this has come.
</p>

<p>
12:16. <hi rend='sans'>But I will leave a few men of them from the
sword, from the famine, and from the pestilence; that they
may declare all their abominations among the heathen
whither they come: and they shall know that I am the
Lord.</hi>&mdash;From among them God will leave a few manly believers,
who shall escape the sword, the famine, literal and
of the Word, and from the pestilential errors; that they, as
then faithful members of the Great Company, may explain
to the revolutionists and anarchists the Truth about the
Divinely forbidden doctrines and deeds of the clergy, and
their following.
</p>

<p>
12:17, 18. <hi rend='sans'>Moreover the Word of the Lord came unto
me, saying, Son of man, eat thy bread with quaking, and
drink thy water with trembling and with carefulness.</hi>&mdash;The
Lord's people were to eat, drink and live with great
economy.
</p>

<p>
12:19. <hi rend='sans'>And say unto the people of the land, Thus saith
the Lord God of the inhabitants of Jerusalem and the land
of Israel; They shall eat their bread with carefulness, and
drink their water with astonishment, that her land may be
desolate from all that is therein, because of the violence
of all them that dwell therein.</hi>&mdash;They were to say to the
people of Christendom: <q>God says to the clergy and people
of nominal Spiritual Israel, the churches: You shall eat
your food by measure, and with economy&mdash;on the food-ticket
plan&mdash;and drink your Truth with amazement at the
famine; for Christendom is to be desolated of its people,
because of the violent wars, and the revolutions and
anarchy of the people.</q>
</p>

<p>
12:20. <hi rend='sans'>And the cities that are inhabited shall be laid
waste, and the land shall be desolate; and ye shall know
that I am the Lord.</hi>&mdash;The governments (cities) shall be
destroyed and the social order desolated in anarchy; and
they shall feel the outworkings of Jehovah's purposes
upon them.
</p>

<p>
12:21, 22. <hi rend='sans'>And the Word of the Lord came unto me,
saying, Son of man, what is that proverb that ye have in
<pb n='431'/><anchor id='Pg431'/>
the land of Israel, saying, The days are prolonged, and
every vision faileth?</hi>&mdash;Nominal clergy and Christians say
concerning the Bible, that this Age will last for thousands
of years and that Bible prophecies fail of fulfillment&mdash;2
Pet. 3:4.
</p>

<p>
12:23. <hi rend='sans'>Tell them therefore, Thus saith the Lord God;
I will make this proverb to cease, and they shall no more
use it as a proverb in Israel; but say unto them, The days
are at hand, and the effect of every vision.</hi>&mdash;God says
that He will make their saying to cease; for close at hand
is the Time of Trouble and of the Kingdom of God, and
the fulfillment of prophecy.
</p>

<p>
12:24. <hi rend='sans'>For there shall be no more any vain vision nor
flattering divination within the house of Israel.</hi>&mdash;There
shall be no more, in the churches, delusive theories of
the everlasting welfare of Christendom or of evolution,
or immortality, or flattering prediction of peace, peace.&mdash;Lam.
2:14.
</p>

<p>
12:25. <hi rend='sans'>For I am the Lord; I will speak, and the word
that I shall speak shall come to pass; It shall be no more
prolonged: for in your days, O rebellious house, will I say
the word, and will perform it, saith the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;Jehovah's
Word shall come to pass promptly, in the present
day.&mdash;Isa. 55:11.
</p>

<p>
12:26, 27. <hi rend='sans'>Again the Word of the Lord came unto me,
saying, Son of man, behold, they of the house of Israel
say, The vision that he seeth is for many days to come,
and he prophesieth of the times that are far off.</hi>&mdash;The
clergy say that Pastor Russell's predictions of early
trouble and the setting up of the Kingdom are for hundreds
or thousands of years to come, and about things that
are far off.&mdash;Amos. 6:3.
</p>

<p>
12:28. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore say unto them, Thus saith the Lord
God, There shall none of My words be prolonged any
more, but the Word which I have spoken shall be done,
saith the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;Jehovah says that none of the words
spoken through His servant Pastor Russell, shall wait any
longer for fulfillment, but the things shall come as spoken.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>Sometime, when all life's lessons have been learned,</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And sun and stars forevermore have set,</l>
<l>The things which our weak judgment here has spurned&mdash;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>The things o'er which we grieved with lashes wet&mdash;</l>
<l>Will flash before us out of life's dark night,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>As stars shine most in deeper tints of blue;</l>
<l>And we shall see how all God's plans were right,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'><q rend='post'>And how what seemed unkind was love most true.</q></l>
</lg>
</quote>

</div>

<pb n='432'/><anchor id='Pg432'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 13&mdash;The Gaps In The Wall</head>

<p>
13:1, 2. <hi rend='sans'>And the Word of the Lord came unto me
saying, Son of man, prophesy against the prophets of
Israel that prophesy, and say thou unto them that prophesy
out of their own hearts, Hear ye the Word of the
Lord.</hi>&mdash;God's Word is to write and speak against the
preachers of Christendom that say things originating in
their own imaginations; let them listen now to the Words
of Jehovah.
</p>

<p>
13:3. <hi rend='sans'>Thus saith the Lord God; Woe unto the foolish
prophets, that follow their own spirit, and have seen
nothing.</hi>&mdash;Woe to the foolish preachers, who as blind
leaders have seen nothing respecting today's crisis in the
Word of God, or in the signs of the times!
</p>

<p>
13:4. <hi rend='sans'>O Israel, thy prophets are like the foxes in the
deserts.</hi>&mdash;O Christendom, thy preachers will be like cunning
foxes, finding profit in the desolation of their country!
</p>

<p>
13:5. <hi rend='sans'>Ye have not gone up into the gaps, neither made
up the hedge for the house of Israel to stand in the battle
in the Day of the Lord.</hi>&mdash;They have not preached God's
Truth to fill up the breaches among Christendom's defenders,
or to build up the broken-down forsakers of
Christendom's moral and spiritual defenses, to enable
Christendom to have strength to stand before God in the
Time of Trouble.
</p>

<p>
13:6. <hi rend='sans'>They have seen vanity and lying divination, saying,
The Lord saith: and the Lord hath not sent them:
and they have made others to hope that they would confirm
the Word.</hi>&mdash;They have taken and taught fallacious
and delusive theories of evolution, destructive criticism of
the Bible, the Divine right of kings and of clergy, and
preached their people into savage warfare, saying it was
the Word of God, when God has not said it; and they
have made others believe their lies.
</p>

<p>
13:7. <hi rend='sans'>Have ye not seen a vain vision, and have ye not
spoken a lying divination, whereas ye say, The Lord saith
it; albeit I have not spoken.</hi>&mdash;They have misrepresented
Jehovah.
</p>

<p>
13:8. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore thus saith the Lord God; Because ye
have spoken vanity, and seen lies, therefore, behold, I am
<pb n='433'/><anchor id='Pg433'/>
against you, saith the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;Wherefore God is against
them.
</p>

<p>
13:9. <hi rend='sans'>And Mine hand shall be upon the prophets that
see vanity, and that divine lies; they shall not be in the
assembly of My people, neither shall they be written in
the writing of the house of Israel, neither shall they enter
into the land of Israel; and ye shall know that I am the
Lord God.</hi>&mdash;God will stretch out His hand against these
preachers. They shall not be in the Church triumphant
(Heb. 12:23), nor shall they be written as members of
the spirit-born Great Company; nor shall they enter the
Heavenly phase of the Kingdom.
</p>

<p>
13:10. <hi rend='sans'>Because, even because they have seduced My
people, saying, Peace; and there was no peace; and one
built up a wall, and lo, others daubed it with untempered
mortar.</hi>&mdash;Because the clergy have deceived and ruined
Christendom (Micah 3:5-7) proclaiming peace when there
was no peace (Jer. 6:14); and when one of them would
build up a slight wall of workers of earthly, civic, social
betterment, the others would bind it together with the
binder of self-interest, not with truth (water) or love.
</p>

<p>
13:11. <hi rend='sans'>Say unto them which daub it with untempered
mortar, that it shall fall; there shall be an overflowing
shower; and ye, O great hailstones, shall fall; and a
stormy wind shall rend it.</hi>&mdash;It shall fall; there shall be an
overflowing downpour of the water of Truth; and hard
truths, great hard facts shall fall upon the wall; and
gigantic wars and world wide commotion shall tear to
pieces the preachers' earthly-civic-social defense.
</p>

<p>
13:12. <hi rend='sans'>Lo, when the wall is fallen, shall it not be said
unto you, Where is the daubing wherewith ye daubed it?</hi>&mdash;Behold,
when Christendom's slight defense against the
forces of evil, is fallen, it shall be inquired of the clergy,
<q>Where is that worthless, loveless, selfish binder wherewith
you inefficiently cemented together its members?</q>
</p>

<p>
13:13. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore thus saith the Lord God; I will even
rend it with a stormy wind in My fury; and there shall be
an overflowing shower in Mine anger, and great hailstones
in My fury to consume it.</hi>&mdash;Therefore God says: I will
destroy your defense with a furious storm of war and
revolution, with a flood of Truth and great hard facts.
</p>

<p>
13:14. <hi rend='sans'>So will I break down the wall that ye have
daubed with untempered mortar, and bring it down to
the ground, so that the foundation thereof shall be discovered,
and it shall fall, and ye shall be consumed in
the midst thereof: and ye shall know that I am the Lord.</hi>&mdash;So
will I break down your flimsy defenses of selfishness;
they shall fall and you shall be buried in their fall.
</p>

<pb n='434'/><anchor id='Pg434'/>

<p>
13:15. <hi rend='sans'>Thus will I accomplish My wrath upon the wall,
and upon them that have daubed it with untempered
mortar, and will say unto you, The wall is no more, neither
they that daubed it.</hi>&mdash;The defense of Christendom exists
no more, neither they that plastered it with showy self-interest.
</p>

<p>
13:16. <hi rend='sans'>To wit, the prophets of Israel which prophesy
concerning Jerusalem, and which see visions of peace for
her when there is no peace.</hi>&mdash;Namely, the preachers of
Christendom who preach peace when there is no peace.
</p>

<p>
13:17. <hi rend='sans'>Likewise, thou son of man, set thy face against
the daughters of thy people, which prophesy out of their
own heart; and prophesy thou against them.</hi>&mdash;God directs
true Christians to set their faces against the man-made
churches, which preach things of their own imagining.
</p>

<p>
13:18. <hi rend='sans'>And say, Thus saith the Lord God; Woe to the
women that sew pillows to all armholes, and make kerchiefs
upon the head of every stature to hunt souls! Will
ye hunt the souls of My people, and will ye save the souls
alive that come unto you?</hi>&mdash;Woe to the churches (women)
that practice superstition (sew amulets about their
elbows&mdash;an oriental method of incantation), and wear
veils of mystery to ensnare men.
</p>

<p>
13:19. <hi rend='sans'>And will ye pollute Me among My people for
handfuls of barley and for pieces of bread, to slay the
souls that should not die, and to save the souls alive that
should not live, by your lying to My people that hear your
lies?</hi>&mdash;Shall they continue to profane and prostitute My
name among My people, for the price of the spiritual
fornication of church-state union (barley was the customary
offering for an adulteress) and for the weekly collections
offering, to discourage, persecute and kill the godly?
</p>

<p>
13:20. <hi rend='sans'>Wherefore thus saith the Lord God; Behold, I
am against your pillows, wherewith ye there hunt to make
them fly, and I will tear them from your arms, and will
let the souls go, even the souls that ye hunt to make them
fly.</hi>&mdash;God will strip the churches of the power of their superstitions,
and will let the people go out of the bondage.
</p>

<p>
13:21. <hi rend='sans'>Your kerchiefs also will I tear, and deliver My
people out of your hand, and they shall be no more in
your hand to be hunted, and ye shall know that I am the
Lord.</hi>&mdash;Their veil of mystery will He tear away, and deliver
His people, the Great Company, out of bondage.
</p>

<p>
13:22. <hi rend='sans'>Because with lies ye have made the heart of the
righteous sad, whom I have not made sad; and strengthened
the hands of the wicked, that he should not return
from his wicked way, by promising him life.</hi>&mdash;Wherefore
the churches shall no more hold forth delusive hopes.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='435'/><anchor id='Pg435'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 14&mdash;Insincere Inquirers</head>

<p>
14:1. <hi rend='sans'>Then came certain of the elders of Israel unto
me, and sat before me.</hi>&mdash;There will come certain of the
clergy of Christendom to the Truth people to listen and
inquire.
</p>

<p>
14:2, 3. <hi rend='sans'>And the Word of the Lord came unto me, saying,
Son of man, these men have set up their idols in their
heart, and put the stumbling block of their iniquity before
their face: should I be inquired of at all by them?</hi>&mdash;God's
Word for them will be that these men have insincerely
set up in their hearts their idols of gold, power, etc., and
with a pretended face-to-face sincerity, have retained their
iniquitous stumbling block of love of sin. Should God be
inquired of at all by such men?
</p>

<p>
14:4. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore speak unto them, and say unto them,
Thus saith the Lord God; Every man of the house of
Israel that setteth up his idols in his heart, and putteth
the stumbling block of his iniquity before his face, and
cometh to the prophet; I the Lord will answer him that
cometh, according to the multitude of his idols:</hi>&mdash;Every
man in the nominal church that insincerely clings to his
idols and to his love of iniquity, and yet comes to one of
God's people, Jehovah will answer not with words, but
with the retribution deserved for his idolatry.
</p>

<p>
14:5. <hi rend='sans'>That I may take the house of Israel in their own
heart, because they are all estranged from Me through
their idols.</hi>&mdash;God will treat the nominal Christian church
in a manner like their own insincere hearts, because by
the idols they serve they are all estranged from their love
for Him.&mdash;2 Thes. 2:11, 12.
</p>

<p>
14:6. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore say unto the house of Israel, Thus saith
the Lord God; Repent, and turn yourselves from your idols;
and turn away your faces from all your abominations.</hi>&mdash;Say
first to them: Repent of your evil deeds, turn away
from your idols, O Christendom, and resolutely turn your
faces unto Him, and from superstition, error, and from
practices which are abominable to His standards.
</p>

<p>
14:7. <hi rend='sans'>For every one of the house of Israel, or of the
stranger that sojourneth in Israel, which separateth himself
from Me, and setteth up his idols in his heart, and
putteth the stumbling block of his iniquity before his face,
<pb n='436'/><anchor id='Pg436'/>
and cometh to a prophet to inquire of him concerning Me;
I the Lord will answer him by Myself.</hi>&mdash;Every church
member and every one associated with him, who ceases
to love God supremely, sets his heart upon other subjects
of love or worship, clings to iniquitous practices, and then
comes to the Truth people to find what God says, verily
Jehovah Himself will answer him&mdash;with deeds, not with
words merely.
</p>

<p>
14:8. <hi rend='sans'>And I will set My face against that man, and
will make him a sign and a proverb, and I will cut him
off from the midst of My people; and ye shall know that
I am the Lord.</hi>&mdash;God will thoroughly disfavor that man,
and make him an example and a by-word; He will cut him
off from a place among His people.
</p>

<p>
14:9. <hi rend='sans'>And if the prophet be deceived when he hath
spoken a thing, I the Lord have deceived that prophet, and
I will stretch out My hand upon him and will destroy him
from the midst of My people Israel.</hi>&mdash;And if any preacher&mdash;even
one of the Truth people&mdash;shall get so wrong in heart
that he is deceived in what he says (Jer. 20:7), Jehovah
will <q>send him a strong delusion that he should believe
a lie,</q> and will be against him and will destroy him from
the midst of His people.
</p>

<p>
14:10. <hi rend='sans'>And they shall bear the punishment of their
iniquity: the punishment of the prophet shall be even as
the punishment of him that seeketh unto him.</hi>&mdash;Both shall
bear the same punishment for their iniquity&mdash;the preachers
and the man that listens to him.
</p>

<p>
14:11. <hi rend='sans'>That the house of Israel may go no more astray
from Me, neither be polluted any more with all their transgressions;
but that they may be My people, and I may
be their God, saith the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;Professed Christian
people shall stray no longer from Him, nor become unclean
spiritually through their wrongdoing, but may truly be
God's people, and He their God.
</p>

<p>
14:12, 13. <hi rend='sans'>The Word of the Lord came again unto me,
saying, Son of man, when the land sinneth against Me
by trespassing grievously then will I stretch out Mine hand
upon it, and will break the staff of the bread thereof, and
will send famine upon it, and will cut off man and beast
from it.</hi>&mdash;When a whole country sins against God with
grievous, willful sin, then will He exercise His power
against it, and cut off the necessary supply of material
(Lev. 26:26) and spiritual food&mdash;send a famine of food and
of the Word of God upon it, and cut off all life from it.
</p>

<pb n='437'/><anchor id='Pg437'/>

<p>
14:14. <hi rend='sans'>Though these three men, Noah, Daniel and Job,
were in it, they should deliver but their own souls by their
righteousness, saith the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;Though in that country
were the three most upright men of history, Noah, Daniel
and Job&mdash;typing here the Little Flock, the Great Company,
and the Household of Faith&mdash;they should by their righteousness
save but their own lives.
</p>

<p>
14:15. <hi rend='sans'>If I cause noisome beasts to pass through the
land, and they spoil it, so that it be desolate, that no man
may pass through because of the beasts.</hi>&mdash;God has caused
savage governments to overrun Christendom with military
and naval forces, and to ruin and desolate it, so that no
manly independent man can exist there.
</p>

<p>
14:16. <hi rend='sans'>Though these three men were in it, as I live,
saith the Lord God, they shall deliver neither sons nor
daughters; they only shall be delivered, but the land shall
be desolate.</hi>&mdash;Though these three classes be in Christendom,
they shall deliver no one but themselves; they only
shall be delivered, but Christendom shall be desolated.
</p>

<p>
14:17. <hi rend='sans'>Or if I bring a sword upon that land, and say,
Sword, go through the land; so that I cut off man and
beast from it:</hi>&mdash;God has brought upon Christendom destroying
weapons (Lev. 26:25), and the Sword of the Spirit
is to go through Christendom and cut off all that can be
cut off, and no one shall save aught but himself.
</p>

<p>
14:18, 19. <hi rend='sans'>Though these three men were in it, as I live,
saith the Lord God, they shall deliver neither sons nor
daughters, but they only shall be delivered themselves.
Or if I send a pestilence into that land, and pour out My
fury upon it in blood, to cut off from it man and beast.</hi>&mdash;God
will permit a pestilence, both of literal disease and
of pestilential errors in Christendom, in wrath to take
away life.
</p>

<p>
14:20, 21. <hi rend='sans'>Though Noah, Daniel and Job were in it, as I
live saith the Lord God, they shall deliver neither son
nor daughters; they shall but deliver their own souls by
their righteousness. For thus saith the Lord God; How
much more when I send My four sore judgments upon
Jerusalem&mdash;the sword, and the famine, and the noisome
beast, and the pestilence&mdash;to cut off from it man and
beast.</hi>&mdash;Christendom is so corrupt that God is sending
upon her His four dreadful punishments&mdash;the sword, the
famine, the savage government and the pestilence&mdash;as
His destroyers!
</p>

<p>
14:22. <hi rend='sans'>Yet behold, therein shall be left a remnant
that shall be brought forth, both sons and daughters:
behold, they shall come forth unto you, and ye shall see
their way and their doings: and ye shall be comforted
<pb n='438'/><anchor id='Pg438'/>
concerning the evil that I have brought upon Jerusalem,
even concerning all that I have brought upon it.</hi>&mdash;There
shall be left from the anarchy a few who shall be brought
through into the Kingdom as samples of Christendom's
pollution. They will live among those who have suffered
in Christendom's trouble, and amid the blessed Kingdom
influences by contrast the others shall see their continued
evil ways and doings. And they will cause everyone to feel
satisfied, content, over the trouble God is bringing upon
Christendom.
</p>

<p>
14:23. <hi rend='sans'>And they shall comfort you, when ye see their
ways and their doings: and ye shall know that I have not
done without cause all that I have done in it, saith the
Lord God.</hi>&mdash;When the others see their evil ways and
doings, they will be content as to the need of the Time
of Trouble, for they shall realize that not without good
cause shall God have done all that He will do to Christendom.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 15&mdash;Fit For Fuel Only</head>

<p>
15:1-8. <hi rend='sans'>And the word of the Lord came unto me, saying,
Son of man, What is the vine tree more than any tree,
or than a branch which is among the trees of the forest?
Shall wood be taken thereof to do any work? or will men
take a pin of it to hang any vessel thereon? Behold, it
is cast into the fire for fuel; the fire devoureth both the
ends of it, and the midst of it is burned. Is it meet for
any work? Behold, when it was whole, it was meet for
no work: how much less shall it be meet yet for any work,
when the fire hath devoured it, and it is burned? Therefore
thus saith the Lord God, As the vine tree among the
trees of the forest, which I have given to the fire for fuel,
so will I give the inhabitants of Jerusalem. And I will set
My face against them; they shall go out from one fire,
and another fire shall devour them; and ye shall know
that I am the Lord, when I set My face against them. And
I will make the land desolate, because they have committed
a trespass, saith the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;Ecclesiasticism,
which imagines itself to be the true vine (John 15:1) with
the sects as branches, is a wild vine (Rev. 14:18), unable
to support itself and clinging like a parasite upon others
for support. It brings forth no character fruitage, is unfit
for any Divine purpose, is slender, half-charred by the
assaults of Higher Criticism, and fit only to be destroyed.&mdash;Psa.
80:8-16.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='439'/><anchor id='Pg439'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 16&mdash;Unfaithfulness Of God's People</head>

<p>
16:1-5. <hi rend='sans'>Again the word of the Lord came unto me, saying,
Son of man, cause Jerusalem to know her abominations,
and say, Thus saith the Lord God unto Jerusalem;
Thy birth and thy nativity is of the land of Canaan; thy
father was an Amorite, and thy mother a Hittite. And as
for thy nativity, in the day thou was born thy navel was
not cut, neither wast thou washed in water to supple thee;
thou wast not salted at all, nor swaddled at all. None
eye pitied thee, to do any of these unto thee, to have compassion
upon thee; but thou wast cast out in the open
field, to the loathing of thy person, in the day that thou
wast born.</hi>&mdash;Chapter 16 is an amplification of the symbolic
description of Babylon the Great (Jerusalem), ecclesiasticism
(Rev. 17), as a once virgin but now apostate woman
(church). The peoples of whom the church was composed
were originally heathen (16:3), in and of the world (field).
</p>

<p>
16:6-8. <hi rend='sans'>And when I passed by thee, and saw thee polluted
in thine own blood, I said unto thee when thou wast
in thy blood, Live; yea, I said unto thee when thou wast
in thy blood, Live. I have caused thee to multiply as the
bud of the field, and thou hast increased and waxen great,
and thou art come to excellent ornaments: thy breasts are
fashioned, and thine hair is grown, whereas thou wast
naked and bare. Now when I passed by thee, and looked
upon thee, behold, thy time was the time of love; and I
spread My skirt over thee, and covered thy nakedness:
yea, I sware unto thee, and entered into a covenant with
thee, saith the Lord God, and thou becamest Mine.</hi>&mdash;God
through Christ loved these people and espoused them,
He caused the church to grow beautiful.
</p>

<p>
16:9-12. <hi rend='sans'>Then washed I thee with water; yea, I thoroughly
washed away thy blood from thee, and I anointed
thee with oil. I clothed thee also with broidered work,
and shod thee with badger's skin, and I girded thee about
with fine linen, and I covered thee with silk. I decked
thee also with ornaments, and I put bracelets upon thy
hands, and a chain on thy neck. And I put a jewel on
thy forehead, and earrings in thine ears, and a beautiful
crown upon thine head.</hi>&mdash;He anointed them with the Holy
Spirit (16:9, oil), clothed them with the robe of Christ's
<pb n='440'/><anchor id='Pg440'/>
righteousness (Matt. 22:11) with the embroidery of character
fruits (Psa. 45:14), and gave them precious ornament
of Divine (golden) promises, put a jewel (pure,
diamond-sparkling Truth&mdash;1 Cor. 3:12) on their forehead
(minds&mdash;Rev. 7:3), golden earrings in their ears (ears to
hear Divine things&mdash;Gen. 24:22), and a beautiful crown on
their head (tentative kingship).&mdash;Rev. 2:10.
</p>

<p>
16:13. <hi rend='sans'>Thus was thou decked with gold and silver; and
thy raiment was of fine linen, and silk, and broidered work;
thou didst eat fine flour, and honey, and oil; and thou wast
exceedingly beautiful, and thou didst prosper into a kingdom.</hi>&mdash;He
gave them the purest and best food from the
Word of God (Psa. 147:14); and they became beautiful in
the beauty of holiness (Psa. 110:3), and prospered even
unto inheritance of the Kingdom of Heaven.&mdash;Col. 1:13.
</p>

<p>
16:14. <hi rend='sans'>And thy renown went forth among the heathen
for thy beauty; for it was perfect through My comeliness,
which I had put upon thee, saith the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;They
became renowned for their holy, kindly characters; obtainable
through sacrificial suffering.&mdash;Heb. 2:10.
</p>

<p>
16:15. <hi rend='sans'>But thou didst trust in thine own beauty, and
playedst the harlot because of thy renown, and pouredst
out thy fornications on every one that passed by; his it
was.</hi>&mdash;The spirit of fornication in a church is the desire
to form a union with any world-government (Rev. 18:3);
this spirit was manifested to every government.&mdash;Isa. 1:21.
</p>

<p>
16:16. <hi rend='sans'>And of thy garments thou didst take, and deckedst
thy high places with divers colours, and playedst
the harlot thereupon; the like things shall not come, neither
shall it be so.</hi>&mdash;The high places are the tops of mountains,
the rulers of governments; there the church displayed her
greatest attractions, and induced the spiritual fornication
of governments, to an extent never to be witnessed again.
</p>

<p>
16:17. <hi rend='sans'>Thou hast also taken thy fair jewels of My gold
and of My silver, which I had given thee, and madest to
thyself images of men, and didst commit whoredom with
them.</hi>&mdash;She took the Divine treasures of Truth, and shaped
and distorted them into the form of traditions of men.
</p>

<p>
16:18, 19. <hi rend='sans'>And tookest thy broidered garments, and coveredst
them; and thou hast set Mine oil and Mine incense
before them. My meat also, which I gave thee, fine flour,
and oil, and honey, wherewith I fed thee, thou hast even
set it before them for a sweet savour; and thus it was,
saith the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;The spiritual food of the Word of
God was spiced with human errors; such as Divine right
of kings and clergy, immortality, Trinity and eternal torment,
preached in a way to please the ruling powers and
serve their unholy purposes.&mdash;Hos. 2:8.
</p>

<pb n='441'/><anchor id='Pg441'/>

<p>
16:20, 21. <hi rend='sans'>Moreover thou hast taken thy sons and thy
daughters, whom thou hast borne unto Me, and these hast
thou sacrificed unto them to be devoured. Is this of thy
whoredoms a small matter? That thou hast slain My children,
and delivered them to cause them to pass through
the fire for them?</hi>&mdash;The Church gave the children of God,
begotten of the Word, to endure doctrines of hell fire (Jer.
7:31) and fiery trials in the warfares of governments.
</p>

<p>
16:22. <hi rend='sans'>And in all thine abominations and thy whoredoms
thou hast not remembered the days of thy youth,
when thou wast naked and bare, and wast polluted in thy
blood.</hi>&mdash;In her pride of place, the church forgot the
heathendom from which her members had been raised.
</p>

<p>
16:23-25. <hi rend='sans'>And it came to pass after all thy wickedness,
(woe, woe unto thee! saith the Lord God.) That thou hast
also built unto thee an eminent place, and hast made thee
a high place in every street. Thou hast built thy high place
at every head of the way, and hast made thy beauty to
be abhorred, and hast opened thy feet to every one that
passed by, and multiplied thy whoredoms.</hi>&mdash;Woe, woe, distress,
trouble and destruction to such an apostate, who in
every conspicuous way (Isa. 57:7) served the interests of
the god of this world, made her <q>virtues</q> detestable to
thoughtful men, and offered herself for state-church union
to every government (street), state, city and town!
</p>

<p>
16:26. <hi rend='sans'>Thou hast also committed fornication with the
Egyptians thy neighbors, great of flesh; and hast increased
thy whoredoms, to provoke Me to anger.</hi>&mdash;She united herself
with the most worldly people, great in earthly things.
</p>

<p>
16:27. <hi rend='sans'>Behold, therefore I have stretched out My hand
over thee, and have diminished thine ordinary food, and
delivered thee unto the will of them that hate thee, the
daughters of the Philistines, which are ashamed of thy
lewd way.</hi>&mdash;God has now, since 1878, brought the powers
of judgment against the apostate church and caused a famine
of the Word of God within church doors. He has given
her over to the encroachments of church daughters of aggressive
worldliness and doctrines of devils (Philistines)&mdash;Christian
Science, Theosophy, New Thought, Higher Criticism
and Spiritism. Even these churches, founded on doctrines
of devils, are ashamed of the worldly, self-debasing
ways of the professedly orthodox Church of Christ.
</p>

<p>
16:28, 29. <hi rend='sans'>Thou hast played the whore also with the
Assyrians, because thou wast unsatiable; yea, thou hast
played the harlot with them, and yet couldest not be satisfied.
Thou hast moreover multiplied thy fornication in
the land of Canaan unto Chaldea; and yet thou wast not
satisfied herewith.</hi>&mdash;The Church has even sought union
<pb n='442'/><anchor id='Pg442'/>
with the forces (Assyrians) destined to overthrow Christendom&mdash;Socialism,
Communism, Industrial Workers of
the World, Trade Unions, Syndicalists, revolutionists,
anarchists,&mdash;insatiable in her desire for power.
</p>

<p>
16:30-34. <hi rend='sans'>How weak is thine heart, saith the Lord God,
seeing thou doest all these things, the work of an imperious
whorish woman, in that thou buildest thine eminent
place in the head of every way, and makest thine high
place in every street; and hast not been as a harlot, in that
thou scornest hire, but as a wife that committeth adultery,
which taketh strangers instead of her husband! They give
gifts to all whores; but thou givest thy gifts to all thy
lovers, and hirest them, that they may come unto thee on
every side for thy whoredom. And the contrary is in thee
from other women in thy whoredoms, whereas none followeth
thee to commit whoredoms; and in that thou givest
a reward, and no reward is given unto thee, therefore thou
are contrary.</hi>&mdash;How despicable is the attitude of the professed
church! ... lower even than an harlot!
For a harlot has some self-respect and gives herself only
for gifts in return; but the <q>Christian</q> church has offered
inducements to every possible kind and grade of governmental
power to enter into Divinely condemned union of
church and state.&mdash;Hos. 8:9.
</p>

<p>
16:35-37. <hi rend='sans'>Wherefore, O harlot, hear the word of the
Lord: Thus saith the Lord God; Because thy filthiness
was poured out, and thy nakedness discovered through thy
whoredoms with thy lovers, and with all the idols of thy
abominations, and by the blood of thy children, which thou
didst give unto them. Behold, therefore I will gather all
thy lovers, with whom thou hast taken pleasure, and all
them that thou hast loved, with all them that thou hast
hated; I will even gather them round about against thee,
and will discover thy nakedness unto them, that they may
see all thy nakedness.</hi>&mdash;Therefore God will cause the governments,
with which the apostate church has made alliance,
to hate and burn her with fire.&mdash;Rev. 17:16.
</p>

<p>
16:38-40. <hi rend='sans'>And I will judge thee, as women that break
wedlock and shed blood are judged; and I will give thee
blood in fury and jealousy. And I will also give thee into
their hand, and they shall throw down thine eminent place,
and shall break down thy high places: they shall strip
thee also of thy clothes, and shall take thy fair jewels, and
leave thee naked and bare. They shall also bring up a
company against thee, and they shall stone thee with
stones, and thrust thee through with their swords.</hi>&mdash;By
Moses' Law women that broke wedlock were stoned to
death; in earlier days they were burned alive; and the
<pb n='443'/><anchor id='Pg443'/>
guilty men also were killed. (Lev. 20:10, 14, 27.) Ecclesiasticism
will be smitten down with the stones of hard
facts, and be destroyed in the fires of anarchy, <q>with the
fire of God's Jealousy.</q> (Zeph. 3:8.) She shall be stripped
of her tinsel and gilt (imitation immortality), her purple
(imperial) and scarlet (bloody) colors, and of her real and
imitation jewels of Truth. The masses, incensed by vain
sacrifices and privations of a world-war, will despatch her.
</p>

<p>
16:41. <hi rend='sans'>And they shall burn thine houses with fire, and
execute judgments upon thee in the sight of many women;
and I will cause thee to cease from playing the harlot, and
thou also shalt give no hire any more.</hi>&mdash;Her houses (denominations)
will be wiped out in the anarchy. She will
receive her terrible judgments in the wondering sight of
many heathen religions (women).
</p>

<p>
16:42, 43. <hi rend='sans'>So will I make My fury toward thee to rest,
and My jealousy shall depart from thee, and I will be quiet
and will be no more angry. Because thou hast not remembered
the days of thy youth, but hast fretted Me in all
these things; behold, therefore I also will recompense thy
way upon thine head, saith the Lord God: and thou shalt
not commit this lewdness above all thine abominations.</hi>&mdash;Not
till ecclesiasticism has perished from the face of the
earth will God's fury and jealousy cease its retributions.
</p>

<p>
16:44, 45. <hi rend='sans'>Behold, every one that useth proverbs shall
use this proverb against thee, saying, As is the mother, so is
her daughter. Thou art thy mother's daughter, that
loatheth her husband and her children; and thou art the
sister of thy sisters, which loathed their husbands and
their children: your mother was a Hittite, and your father
an Amorite.</hi>&mdash;The Hittites, Amorites, Samaritans and Sodomites
were all worshipers of Baal and Astarte, under one
name or another, and were adepts in the heathen and immoral
beliefs and practices of that religion, typical not of
fleshly but of spiritual uncleanness, as explained in foregoing
pages. The true Church's father was our Father,
her mother the Sarah Covenant of Grace, and her espoused
husband, Christ. Ecclesiasticism's parentage, as becometh
the <q>dwellers in the summits,</q> the proud <q>best</q> people,
was the proud, self-sufficient one, the Devil (John 8:44.)
Romanism and Protestantism are begotten, not by the
Word of God, but by the words of pride, of selfishness, of
earthly ambition. Her mother was of the Hittites, a commercial
people, descendants of Ham, under Divine disapproval;
her spiritual mother was the false promises of
human tradition, which would barter a Divine promise for
an earthly meal; she loves compromise, and knows not
principle. <q>Like mother, like daughter.</q>
</p>

<pb n='444'/><anchor id='Pg444'/>

<p>
16:46. <hi rend='sans'>And thine elder sister is Samaria, she and her
daughters that dwell at thy left hand; and thy younger
sister, that dwelleth at thy right hand, is Sodom and her
daughters.</hi>&mdash;Samaria and Sodom were worshipers of Baal.
With like parentage, ecclesiasticism is a sister religion
with the heathen religions, even acknowledging in many
volumes the unity of all religions, herself included. Samaria,
the ten apostate tribes, mingled the religion of Jehovah
with that of Baal&mdash;a fit religious sister of the <q>nominal
church,</q> which reads the Bible and serves the god of
selfishness. Samaria elsewhere types not merely ecclesiasticism's
sister, but churchianity herself. Sodom, here
named Jerusalem's (ecclesiasticism's) sister religion, is
directly identified as churchianity in Rev. 11:8&mdash;<q>The
great city which spiritually is called Sodom and Egypt,
where also our Lord was crucified.</q> It types professed
Christianity in its lowest phase.
</p>

<p>
16:47. <hi rend='sans'>Yet hast thou not walked after their ways, nor
done after their abominations: but, as if that were a very
little thing, thou was corrupted more than they in all thy
ways.</hi>&mdash;As though the ill-fame of Sodom were not enough,
(apostate) Christianity has excelled her in corruption;
Sodom's literal depravity was <q>a very little thing</q> to
ecclesiasticism's ways.
</p>

<p>
16:48-50. <hi rend='sans'>At I live, saith the Lord God, Sodom thy sister
hath not done, she nor her daughters, as thou hast done,
thou and thy daughters. Behold, this was the iniquity of
thy sister Sodom, pride, fulness of bread, and abundance of
idleness was in her and in her daughters, neither did she
strengthen the hand of the poor and needy. And they
were haughty, and committed abomination before Me;
therefore I took them away as I saw good.</hi>&mdash;Sodom's greatest
depravity (A. 111, 112) was a result of depraved sexuality
in connection with the religion of Baal. <q>This dreadful
<q>consecration</q> spread over Phoenicia, Syria, Phrygia,
Assyria and Babylonia. Ashtaroth, the Greek Astarte, was
its chief object.</q> Its antitype in the churches was, for
national, state or municipal rulers, under guise of advancing
religion, to cause their tributary governments to become
<q>Christianized.</q> Whole nations were thus <q>Christianized</q>
and baptized&mdash;the peoples of savage governments.
Through a letting down of the bars of immorality,
spiritual and fleshly, this ministered to the beastly propensities
of rulers and of others. The clergy, from Pope
to class leader, prostituted religion for the pleasure and
profit of association with the rich and powerful. Rulers
were assured of the <q>Divine right of kings,</q> and received
homage, as God's representatives. The people were led
<pb n='445'/><anchor id='Pg445'/>
to believe that death for rulers was entrance to Heaven,
and thousands died in the exhilaration&mdash;mistaken for religious
uplift&mdash;of self-sacrifice in their behalf. Ministers
of Satan masquerading as angels of light, preached these
falsities and millions believed them, and for their own
good, and the good of the world which they have corrupted,
God is about to take them away.&mdash;Z. '95-56.
</p>

<p>
16:51, 52. <hi rend='sans'>Neither hath Samaria committed half of thy
sins; but thou hast multiplied thine abominations more
than they, and hast justified thy sisters in all thine abominations
which thou hast done. Thou also, which hast
judged thy sisters, bear thine own shame for thy sins that
thou hast committed more abominable than they; they are
more righteous than thou; yea, be thou confounded also,
and bear thy shame, in that thou hast justified thy sisters.</hi>&mdash;As
Jerusalem's moral corruption justified Sodom and
Samaria, so ecclesiasticism's moral and spiritual depravity
have justified those elements in Christendom typed by
Samaria and Sodom. The clergy, and their churches, because
of pride of being the <q>best people</q>, have been more
abominable than those of baser sort.&mdash;Psa. 119:113; Prov.
6:17; 8:13; 16:18.
</p>

<p>
16:53-55. <hi rend='sans'>When I shall bring again their captivity, the
captivity of Sodom and her daughters, and the captivity
of Samaria and her daughters, then will I bring again the
captivity of thy captives in the midst of them. That thou
mayest bear thine own shame, and mayest be confounded
in all that thou hast done, in that thou art a comfort unto
them. When thy sisters, Sodom and her daughters, shall
return to their former estate, and Samaria and her daughters
shall return to their former estate, then thou and
thy daughters shall return to your former estate.</hi>&mdash;In the
resurrection of the dead, <q>just and unjust</q> (Acts 24:15),
Jerusalem, in shame, will face Sodom and Samaria, confounded
and abased by the fact that her evil practices
justified, excused and <q>comforted</q> Sodom and Samaria.
Likewise ecclesiasticism, the clergy and their following
of <q>best people</q>, will be in shame over the fact that their
iniquity was an incentive to the evil doing of the baser
elements of Christendom.
</p>

<p>
16:56-59. <hi rend='sans'>For thy sister Sodom was not mentioned by
thy mouth in the day of thy pride. Before thy wickedness
was discovered, as at the time of thy reproach of the
daughters of Syria, and all that are round about her, the
daughters of the Philistines, which despise thee round
about. Thou hast borne thy lewdness and thine abominations,
saith the Lord. For thus saith the Lord God; I will
even deal with thee as thou hast done, which hast despised
<pb n='446'/><anchor id='Pg446'/>
the oath in breaking the covenant.</hi>&mdash;Among a proud
and corrupt <q>best</q> people it was a tabooed subject even to
mention the depravities of the <q>worser kind</q>; but in the
last two score years of merciless <q>muckraking</q> and publicity
of <q>Christian</q> criminality in choir lofts, Sunday
School rooms, church <q>studies</q>, belfries, orphan asylums
and convents, <q>the wickedness was discovered</q> of clergy
and church people, and so widely published that the heathen
religions (daughters of Syria and of the Philistines)
have come to know about it and to despise so-called
<q>Christianity.</q> Christendom has despised its vow of consecration
to God and the Covenant of Grace, by which <q>We,
as Isaac was, are the children of the Promise.</q> (Gal. 4:28),
and under which she was betrothed to Christ. God will
deal with Christendom in like manner as Christendom has
dealt with God.
</p>

<p>
16:60. <hi rend='sans'>Nevertheless, I will remember My covenant with
thee in the days of thy youth, and I will establish unto thee
an everlasting covenant.</hi>&mdash;Nevertheless, <q>God is faithful</q>,
(1 Cor. 1:9); and as He made a covenant with the church
in the pure and faithful days of her youth, He will remember
that covenant, and in the Times of Restitution will
make with all people, through the Jews, the New Covenant,
everlasting, under which there will be showers of
blessing.&mdash;Ezek. 34:26.
</p>

<p>
16:61. <hi rend='sans'>Then thou shalt remember thy ways, and be
ashamed, when thou shalt receive thy sisters, thine elder
and thy younger: and I will give them unto thee for daughters,
but not by thy covenant.</hi>&mdash;When the people of Christendom,
come back from the dead to life on the earth they
will remember their evil, faithless ways, and experience
deepest shame when people of the baser sort are given to
them as daughters, to love and cherish in the Lord.&mdash;D. 633.
</p>

<p>
16:62. <hi rend='sans'>And I will establish My covenant with thee: and
thou shalt know that I am the Lord.</hi>&mdash;The coming blessings
are not for any faithfulness of Christendom, but because
God is faithful.
</p>

<p>
16:63. <hi rend='sans'>That thou mayest remember, and be confounded,
and never open thy mouth any more because of thy shame,
when I am pacified toward thee for all that thou hast done,
saith the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;Then the once apostate people, at
last returned to <q>the Bishop and Shepherd of their souls</q>
(1 Pet. 2:25), will realize the fullness of God's eternal
goodness and love, and come into the peace of God (Phil.
4:7)&mdash;a peace that will be eternal.&mdash;A. 111; Z. '94-46.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='447'/><anchor id='Pg447'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 17&mdash;Parable Of The Eagles</head>

<p>
17:1, 2. <hi rend='sans'>And the Word of the Lord came unto me, saying,
Son of man, put forth a riddle, and speak a parable,
unto the house of Israel.</hi>&mdash;Chapter 17 pictures ecclesiasticism
as a king, his partial captivity to the forces destined
to destroy him, his turning for support to the forces of
worldly wisdom and power, the failure of the attempted
alliance, and his final downfall.
</p>

<p>
17:3. <hi rend='sans'>And say, Thus saith the Lord God, A great eagle
with great wings, long-winged, full of feathers, which had
divers colours, came unto Lebanon and took the highest
branch of the cedar.</hi>&mdash;The Assyrians (a great eagle) with
great wings, long-winged, full of feathers (strong of
wing, powerful), which had divers colors (many varieties
and phases of appearance) came to Lebanon (the
Hebrew kingdom) and took the highest branch of the
cedar (carried King Jehoiachim captive). In antitype this
signifies: The power destined to destroy Christendom
(anarchy, Nihilism, Socialism, and their wisdom expressed
in schools of thought tending to destroy respect for Christendom)
like an eagle (wise one) with great wings (impressive
words) long-winged (far-reaching), full of feathers
(full of argument), has quietly made its way into Christendom
since 1878 and taken captive the highest ones, many
of the leading class of Christendom (the Cedar) with
doctrines of Evolution, Socialism, and Higher Criticism,
all destructive of the existing order of things.
</p>

<p>
17:4. <hi rend='sans'>He cropped off the top of his twigs, and carried
it into a land of traffick; he set it in a city of merchants.</hi>&mdash;These
were taken captive by these systems of thought
into a condition where the Heavenly ideals of the church
were abandoned for mere trafficking for position and
power, and in human, earthly theories and philosophies.
</p>

<p>
17:5. <hi rend='sans'>He took also of the seed of the land, and planted
it in a fruitful field; he placed it by great waters, and set
it as a willow tree.</hi>&mdash;The remaining people of ecclesiasticism,
more lowly, the seed from whom had once sprung
the ruling classes, will be planted in rich, deep soil, well
saturated with waters of the great truths of fraternity,
equality and liberty.
</p>

<pb n='448'/><anchor id='Pg448'/>

<p>
17:6. <hi rend='sans'>And it grew, and became a spreading vine of low
stature, whose branches turned toward him, and the roots
thereof were under him: so it became a vine, and brought
forth branches, and shot forth sprigs.</hi>&mdash;The new ecclesiasticism,
fostered by revivalists, evangelists, social and civic
workers and other earthly reformers, will grow and flourish
into a form of ecclesiasticism, low, never far above earthly
things, whose numbers (branches) tended toward anarchous
systems of thought, and whose roots, fundamental
philosophy, will be under the sway of the same.
</p>

<p>
17:7, 8. <hi rend='sans'>There was also another great eagle with great
wings and many feathers: and, behold, this vine did bend
her roots toward him, and shot forth her branches toward
him, that he might water it by the furrows of her plantation.
It was planted in a good soil by great waters, that
it might bring forth branches, and that it might bear fruit,
that it might be a goodly vine.</hi>&mdash;But the new, low-born
ecclesiasticism, alarmed at the anarchous trend of thought,
shall turn toward another great system of wisdom (an
eagle) equally of demoniacal origin; i. e., conservative,
worldly wisdom tending to uphold the present unholy state
of affairs.
</p>

<p>
17:9. <hi rend='sans'>Say thou, Thus saith the Lord God: Shall it prosper?
shall he not pull up the roots thereof, cut off the
fruit thereof, that it wither? It shall wither in all the leaves
of her spring, even without great power or many people
to pluck it up by the roots thereof.</hi>&mdash;The time of God's
Kingdom having come, God purposes to uproot the new
ecclesiasticism. Its character fruitage, being of the spirit
of this world, must be cut off and withered in the fiery
trials of this tribulation time. Its promise (leaves) shall
wither away, even as it has withered wherever the great
war has touched.
</p>

<p>
17:10. <hi rend='sans'>Yea, behold, being planted, shall it prosper?
shall it not utterly wither, when the east wind toucheth
it? It shall wither in the furrows where it grew.</hi>&mdash;From
the east, the direction of the rising Sun of Righteousness
comes a wind, a teaching, Present Truth, that shall touch
the new ecclesiasticism and wither it in a time when there
is <q>perplexity and distress of nations, men's hearts failing
them for fear of the things coming on the earth</q> (Luke
21:24, 25)&mdash;the social order&mdash;ecclesiasticism&mdash;<q>the vine.</q>&mdash;Rev.
14:18.
</p>

<p>
17:11, 12. <hi rend='sans'>Moreover the word of the Lord came unto
me saying, Say now to the rebellious house, Know ye not
what these things mean? tell them, Behold, the King of
Babylon is come to Jerusalem, and hath taken the king
thereof, and the princes thereof, and led them with him
<pb n='449'/><anchor id='Pg449'/>
to Babylon.</hi>&mdash;The king of Babylon, Satan, has already
come to ecclesiasticism and taken captive the ruling class,
the prominent clergy.
</p>

<p>
17:13. <hi rend='sans'>And hath taken of the king's seed, and made
a covenant with him, and hath taken an oath of him; he
hath also taken the mighty of the land.</hi>&mdash;He holds the
chief ones captive by reason of their agreement with his
modern, false, religious, social and economic teachings.
</p>

<p>
17:14. <hi rend='sans'>That the kingdom might be base, that it might
not lift itself up, but that by keeping of his covenant it
might stand.</hi>&mdash;As a result ecclesiasticism will not be able
to rise above earthly things nor lift itself up to combat
anarchous systems of thought. If it could do so, it might
not be overthrown immediately, but might continue to
stand for yet a little while.
</p>

<p>
17:15. <hi rend='sans'>But he rebelled against him in sending his ambassadors
into Egypt that they might give him horses
and much people. Shall he prosper? shall he escape that
doeth such things? or shall he break the covenant, and
be delivered?</hi>&mdash;Ecclesiasticism has rebelled by crying out
to the established wisdom of this world (Egypt), relying
upon strong, conservative worldly doctrines (horses) and
many supporters of the reactionary ideas, to save it from
complete overthrow.
</p>

<p>
17:16. <hi rend='sans'>As I live, saith the Lord God, surely in the place
where the king dwelleth that made him king, whose oath
he despised, and whose covenant he brake, even with him
in the midst of Babylon he shall die.</hi>&mdash;As God lives! In
the condition of lawlessness, wherein Satan, the king of
anarchy, liveth, who elevated ecclesiasticism to its place
of power, there, in anarchy, in the midst of lawless hosts,
shall ecclesiasticism perish.
</p>

<p>
17:17. <hi rend='sans'>Neither shall Pharaoh with his mighty army and
great company make for him in the war, by casting up
mounts, and building forts, to cut off many persons.</hi>&mdash;Neither
shall worldly wisdom, with its mighty following,
accomplish anything for ecclesiasticism in its death
struggle with anarchy, not even by raising up governmental
support (mounts) nor by the united efforts of the
strongest elements of this world's might.
</p>

<p>
17:18, 19. <hi rend='sans'>Seeing he despised the oath by breaking the
covenant, when, lo, he had given his hand, and hath done
all these things, he shall not escape. Therefore thus saith
the Lord God; As I live, surely Mine oath that he hath
despised, and My covenant that he hath broken, even it
will I recompense upon his own head.</hi>&mdash;Ecclesiasticism has
been faithless to Jehovah and will be faithless to its newly
acquired philosophy.
</p>

<pb n='450'/><anchor id='Pg450'/>

<p>
17:20. <hi rend='sans'>And I will spread My net upon him, and he shall
be taken in My snare, and I will bring him to Babylon
and will plead with him there for his trespass that he hath
trespassed against Me.</hi>&mdash;Like a snare, a net, shall the
Time of Trouble come upon ecclesiasticism; and it shall
not escape destruction at the hands of anarchy.
</p>

<p>
17:21. <hi rend='sans'>And all his fugitives with all his bands shall fall
by the sword, and they that remain shall be scattered
toward all winds: and ye shall know that I the Lord have
spoken it.</hi>&mdash;Millions that abandon churches and clergy in
the trouble shall fall physically by violence, and be slain
spiritually by the Sword of the Spirit; and those that
escape death shall be scattered in the world-wide commotion
(winds) far from the systems they once supported.
They shall know that God has spoken truly, when the day
of anarchy shall come.
</p>

<p>
17:22. <hi rend='sans'>Thus saith the Lord God: I will also take of the
highest branch of the high cedar, and will set it; I will
crop off from the top of his young twigs a tender one, and
will plant it upon a high mountain and eminent.</hi>&mdash;Thus
says the Lord God: One of the highest branches of ecclesiasticism
is Judaism. I will establish Judaism. I will
take, in Judaism, one of its young and tender aspirations&mdash;Zionism&mdash;and
will plant it, establish it at the very pinnacle
of the coming Kingdom of God&mdash;the Jews ruling, through
the resurrected Ancient Worthies&mdash;Abraham, Isaac, Jacob,
etc.&mdash;over the earthly phase of that Kingdom.&mdash;Psa. 45:16;
Heb. 11:10.
</p>

<p>
17:23. <hi rend='sans'>In the mountains of the height of Israel will I
plant it; and it shall bring forth boughs, and bear fruit,
and be a goodly cedar; and under it shall dwell all fowl
of every wing; in the shadow of the branches thereof shall
they dwell.</hi>&mdash;It shall branch above all nations (boughs)
and bear character fruit unto life eternal. (John 4:36.)
It shall be the desire of all nations (Hag. 2:7) (a goodly
cedar). Under it shall dwell in peace all the truly wise
ones of earth.
</p>

<p>
17:24. <hi rend='sans'>And all the trees of the field shall knew that
I the Lord have brought down the high tree, have exalted
the low tree, have dried up the green tree, and have made
the dry tree to flourish: I the Lord have spoken and have
done it.</hi>&mdash;All the people (trees) of the world (field) shall
know that the Lord has brought down nominal ecclesiasticism
and exalted the Ancient Worthies, has dried up
<q>Christianity</q> and given vitality to Zionism and Judaism.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='451'/><anchor id='Pg451'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 18&mdash;<q>The Soul That Sinneth</q></head>

<p>
18:1, 2. <hi rend='sans'>The Word of the Lord came unto me again,
saying, What mean ye, that ye use this proverb concerning
the land of Israel, saying, the fathers have eaten sour
grapes, and the children's teeth are set on edge?</hi>&mdash;The
Word of God came to be clearly understood by Pastor
Russell as to the equity of Jehovah's dealings with man
in condemning all to death. Both Jews and Christians
have asked, <q>How is it just to visit the sins of the fathers
upon the children to the third and fourth generations?</q>
<q>Why have the children's teeth been set on edge by the
fathers' eating the sour grape of sin?</q>&mdash;H. 59; E. <hi rend='italic'>334</hi>, 309.
</p>

<p>
18:3. <hi rend='sans'>As I live, saith the Lord God, ye shall not have
occasion any more to use this proverb in Israel.</hi>&mdash;The
doubters queried, <q>Doth not the son bear the iniquity of
the father?</q> (18:19.) They complained, <q>The way of the
Lord is not equal</q> nor just. (18:25.) Pastor Russell,
expounding the Word of God, demonstrated clearly that
God's way is just (18:25); that man's ways are unequal,
unjust (18:29); and that God takes no <q>pleasure at all
that the wicked should die, but rather that he should turn
from his ways and live.</q> (18:23-32.) The time will soon
be when the scornful proverb shall no longer possess any
force.&mdash;H. 46.
</p>

<p>
18:4. <hi rend='sans'>Behold, all souls are Mine; as the soul of the
father, so also the soul of the son is Mine; the soul that
sinneth, it shall die.</hi>&mdash;In the earthly phase of the thousand-year
probationary Kingdom of God the equal justice of
God will be manifest, father and son will be treated alike,
no one dying for a parent's sin; but each soul that sinneth
shall die for his own sin.&mdash;E. <hi rend='italic'>354</hi>, 331; A. 128.
</p>

<p>
18:5-9. <hi rend='sans'>But if a man be just, and do that which is
lawful and right, And hath not eaten upon the mountains,
neither hath lifted up his eyes to the idols of the house of
Israel, neither hath defiled his neighbour's wife, neither
hath come near to a menstruous woman, and hath not
oppressed any, but hath restored to the debtor his pledge,
hath spoiled none by violence, hath given his bread to the
hungry, and hath covered the naked with a garment; he
that hath not given forth upon usury, neither hath taken
any increase, that hath withdrawn his hand from iniquity,
<pb n='452'/><anchor id='Pg452'/>
hath executed true judgment between man and man, hath
walked in My statutes, and hath kept My judgments, to
deal truly; he is just, he shall surely live, saith the Lord
God.</hi>&mdash;The Father of equal love will beseech each sinner to
repent and turn from his transgression, that iniquity, wilful
sin, be not his ruin. <q>Wherefore turn yourselves and
live ye.</q> (Ezek. 18:30, 32.) The days of death from Adamic
and parental imperfection will be over; each one will be
solely responsible for his own life or death. To clearly
explain the changed situation the several cases are presented.
If a righteous man continue in a righteous course
he shall live eternally.
</p>

<p>
18:10-13. <hi rend='sans'>If he beget a son that is a robber, a shedder
of blood, and that doeth the like to any one of these things,
And that doeth not any of those duties, but even hath eaten
upon the mountains, and defiled his neighbour's wife, hath
oppressed the poor and needy, hath spoiled by violence,
hath not restored the pledge, and hath lifted up his eyes
to the idols, hath committed abomination, hath given forth
upon usury, and hath taken increase: shall he then live?
he shall not live: he hath done all these abominations; he
shall surely die; his blood shall be upon him.</hi>&mdash;If a man's
son is a wilful sinner, <q>he shall surely die; his blood shall
be upon himself.</q>
</p>

<p>
18:14-18. <hi rend='sans'>Now, lo, if he beget a son, that seeth all his
father's sins which he hath done, and considereth, and
doeth not such like, that hath not eaten upon the mountains,
neither hath lifted up his eyes to the idols of the
house of Israel, hath not defiled his neighbour's wife,
neither hath oppressed any, hath not withholden the
pledge, neither hath spoiled by violence, but hath given
his bread to the hungry, and hath covered the naked with
a garment, that hath taken off his hand from the poor,
that hath not received usury nor increase, hath executed
My Judgments, hath walked in My statutes; he shall not
die for the iniquity of his father, he shall surely live. As
for his father, because he cruelly oppressed, spoiled his
brother by violence, and did that which is not good among
his people, lo, even he shall die in his iniquity.</hi>&mdash;If the
wicked man have a good, upright son, the good son shall
live; but the father shall die.
</p>

<p>
18:19-23. <hi rend='sans'>Yet say ye, Why? doth not the son bear the
iniquity of the father? When the son hath done that
which is lawful and right, and hath kept all My statutes,
and hath done them, he shall surely live. The soul that
sinneth, it shall die. The son shall not bear the iniquity
of the father, neither shall the father bear the iniquity of
the son: the righteousness of the righteous shall be upon
<pb n='453'/><anchor id='Pg453'/>
him, and the wickedness of the wicked shall be upon him.
But if the wicked will turn from all his sins that he hath
committed, and keep all My statutes, and do that which
is lawful and right, he shall surely live, he shall not die.
All his transgressions that he hath committed, they shall
not be mentioned unto him: in his righteousness that he
hath done he shall live. Have I any pleasure at all that
the wicked should die? saith the Lord God: and not that
he should return from his ways, and live?</hi>&mdash;The wicked
man who turns to righteousness shall not have his former
sins held against him; but he shall live.
</p>

<p>
18:24-30. <hi rend='sans'>But when the righteous turneth away from his
righteousness, and committeth iniquity, and doeth according
to all the abominations that the wicked man doeth,
shall he live? All his righteousness that he hath done
shall not be mentioned: in his trespass that he hath trespassed,
and in his sin that he hath sinned, in them shall
he die. Yet ye say, The way of the Lord is not equal.
Hear now, O house of Israel; is not My way equal? are
not your ways unequal? When a righteous man turneth
away from his righteousness, and committeth iniquity, and
dieth in them; for his iniquity that he hath done shall he
die. Again, when the wicked man turneth away from his
wickedness that he hath committed, and doeth that which
is lawful and right, he shall save his soul alive. Because
he considereth, and turneth away from all his transgressions
that he hath committed, he shall surely live, he shall
not die. Yet saith the house of Israel, The way of the
Lord is not equal. O house of Israel, are not My ways
equal? are not your ways unequal? Therefore I will judge
you, O house of Israel, every one according to his ways,
saith the Lord God. Repent, and turn yourselves from all
your transgressions; so iniquity shall not be your ruin.</hi>&mdash;The
righteous man who turns to iniquity shall die.
</p>

<p>
18:31, 32. <hi rend='sans'>Cast away from you all your transgressions,
whereby ye have transgressed; and make you a new heart
and a new spirit: for why will ye die, O house of Israel?
For I have no pleasure in the death of him that dieth,
saith the Lord God: wherefore turn yourselves, and live
ye.</hi>&mdash;This will be true of individuals as soon as the last
member of the spirit-begotten Body of Christ has died.
And it is true now&mdash;and has been true since 1878&mdash;of the
institutions of <q>this present evil age,</q> which have been
in Divine judgment since 1878. If ecclesiasticism, <q>the
house of Israel,</q> would cast away all their transgressions,
and gain a new heart and a new spirit, they would abide
forever; but they will never change their evil ways; their
destruction will be their own wilful act&mdash;<q>Why will ye die?</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='454'/><anchor id='Pg454'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 19&mdash;The Lion's Whelps</head>

<p>
19:1. <hi rend='sans'>Moreover, take thou up a lamentation for the
princes of Israel.</hi>&mdash;Chapter 19 has the form of a dirge. It
represents in antitype the downfall, in the Time of Trouble,
of ecclesiasticism pictured first, as two roaring lions which
are taken captive; and secondly, as a vine destroyed by
fire of internal origin. The princes of Israel are the clergy.
</p>

<p>
19:2. <hi rend='sans'>And say, What is thy mother? A lioness: she lay
down among lions, she nourished her whelps among young
lions.</hi>&mdash;As the father and the mother of Isaac were Abraham
and Sarah, and the spiritual father and mother of
the true Church are Jehovah and His Covenant of Grace
(Gal. 4:22-28), so the spiritual father and mother of ecclesiasticism,
priestcraft, are the Devil and his covenant with
death. (Gen. 3:4; Isa. 28:18.) <q>The Devil goeth about like
a roaring lion.</q> (1 Pet. 5:8.) Their nourishment has been
<q>doctrines of devils.</q>
</p>

<p>
19:3. <hi rend='sans'>And she brought up one of her whelps; it became
a young lion, and it learned to catch the prey; it devoured
men.</hi>&mdash;Ecclesiasticism divided into two classes; one higher,
richer, more educated than the other&mdash;<q>one of her whelps.</q>
They learned to devour men, make them their prey.
</p>

<p>
19:4. <hi rend='sans'>The nations also heard of him; he was taken in
their pit, and they brought him with chains unto the land
of Egypt.</hi>&mdash;The unbelieving peoples heard them; they, the
clergy, were taken in the pit of corrupt doctrine; they
were captivated, taken captive, into worldliness, the wisdom
of this world, of <q>Egypt.</q>
</p>

<p>
19:5. <hi rend='sans'>Now when she saw that she had waited, and her
hope was lost, then she took another of her whelps, and
made him a young lion.</hi>&mdash;Another class of ecclesiasticism
was developed, under the same false covenant with death,
into a full-fledged lion, an embodiment and child of the
eternal torment, trinity, inherent-immortality teachings.
</p>

<p>
19:6. <hi rend='sans'>And he went up and down among the lions, he
became a young lion, and learned to catch the prey, and
devoured men.</hi>&mdash;This was the popular evangelist well
trained in catching men and shekels.
</p>

<p>
19:7. <hi rend='sans'>And he knew their desolate palaces, and he laid
waste their cities; and the land was desolate, and the fulness
thereof, by the noise of his roaring.</hi>&mdash;The revivalists
caught men by thousands, and <q>the fulness thereof,</q> great
contributions for a few weeks of noisy evangelism.
</p>

<pb n='455'/><anchor id='Pg455'/>

<p>
19:8. <hi rend='sans'>Then the nations set against him on every side
from the provinces, and spread their net over him; he was
taken in their pit.</hi>&mdash;Then the <q>unconvertible</q> people, anarchists,
Socialists, etc., spread the net of their teachings.
The people, indignant at their sufferings from wars and
high cost of living, declined further support.
</p>

<p>
19:9. <hi rend='sans'>And they put in ward in chains, and brought him
to the king of Babylon: they brought him into holds, that
his voice should no more be heard upon the mountains of
Israel.</hi>&mdash;Revolution and anarchy will place a complete restraint
upon the revivalists, and bring them to their end.
</p>

<p>
19:10. <hi rend='sans'>Thy mother is like a vine in thy blood, planted
by the waters: she was fruitful and full of branches by
reason of many waters.</hi>&mdash;The false covenant-mother of
ecclesiasticism is a system of thought, in the very blood;
it is part and parcel of the existence of ecclesiasticism.
It is <q>the vine of the earth,</q> of Rev. 14:19. This system
of error was once fruitful in gaining adherents.
</p>

<p>
19:11. <hi rend='sans'>And she had strong rods for the sceptres of them
that bare rule, and her stature was exalted among the thick
branches, and she appeared in her height with the multitude
of her branches.</hi>&mdash;The vine had seeming strong authority
for the rulership <q>of them that bare rule,</q> the
clergy, <q>lords over God's heritage.</q> (1 Pet. 5:3.) To a
mighty and lofty height did the vine of the earth grow.
</p>

<p>
19:12. <hi rend='sans'>But she was plucked up in fury, she was cast
down to the ground, and the east wind dried up her fruit:
her strong rods were broken and withered; the fire consumed
them.</hi>&mdash;But in the fury of the world-wide war she
will be <q>cast down to the ground.</q> The truths arising from
the presence of the dawning Sun of Righteousness will dry
up the support of her fruit (church members). Her authority&mdash;rod&mdash;will
be broken, withered, and destroyed in
anarchy.
</p>

<p>
19:13. <hi rend='sans'>And now she is planted in the wilderness, in a
dry and thirsty ground.</hi>&mdash;In a world of hostile doctrines of
Socialism and anarchy, in a world-wide drought of the
water of the Word of God, the old system of sophistries
will soon be in the wilderness condition, in a state of
complete ostracism.
</p>

<p>
19:14. <hi rend='sans'>And fire is gone out of a rod of her branches,
which hath devoured her fruit, so that she hath no strong
rod to be a sceptre to rule. This is a lamentation, and
shall be for a lamentation.</hi>&mdash;The savage application in the
world-wide war of the rod of the Divine authority of rulers
will cause revolt, revolution and anarchy to spring up, like
a fire, which will bring to an utter end the denominational
clusters, the fruit of the vine of the earth.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='456'/><anchor id='Pg456'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 20&mdash;The Hypocritical Ecclesiastics</head>

<p>
20:1. <hi rend='sans'>And it came to pass in the seventh year, in the
fifth month, the tenth day of the month, that certain of the
elders of Israel came to inquire of the Lord, and sat before
me.</hi>&mdash;The elders of Israel came to confer with Ezekiel, but
he would not be interviewed by them, because of their
idolatrous tendencies. The Hebrews had always had such
propensities. God had refrained from destroying them
in order to preserve His own good name among the heathen
peoples; but now He was about to punish them, until the
appointed time should come when He would regather them.
The destruction of Judaism is here pictured as a fire in
a forest. This chapter introduces another group of prophecies
against Christendom, ending with Chapter 24. Some
of the prominent ecclesiastics will read up or consult
Pastor Russell and his writings, and the <q>Truth people,</q>
ostensibly to learn what they can.
</p>

<p>
20:2, 3. <hi rend='sans'>Then came the Word of the Lord unto me, saying,
Son of man, speak unto the elders of Israel, and say
unto them, Thus saith the Lord God; Are ye come to inquire
of Me? As I live, saith the Lord God, I will not be
inquired of by you.</hi>&mdash;Present Truth will refuse any favorable
answer to ecclesiasticism.
</p>

<p>
20:4. <hi rend='sans'>Wilt thou judge them, son of man, wilt thou judge
them? cause them to know the abominations of their
fathers.</hi>&mdash;Instead, it will pronounce judgment upon them.
It will cause them to realize the abominations in doctrine
and in life of professed Christians, as a result of the teachings
of the Dark Ages.
</p>

<p>
20:5. <hi rend='sans'>And say unto them, Thus saith the Lord God: in
the day when I chose Israel, and lifted up Mine hand unto
the seed of the house of Jacob, and made Myself known
unto them in the land of Egypt, when I lifted up Mine hand
unto them, saying, I am the Lord your God.</hi>&mdash;First viewed
as God's people <q>in the world,</q> Egypt, God chose them,
made Himself known to them, and lifted up for them the
hand of His power.&mdash;Z. '94-357.
</p>

<p>
20:6. <hi rend='sans'>In the day that I lifted up Mine hand unto them,
to bring them forth of the land of Egypt into a land that
I had espied for them, flowing with milk and honey, which
is the glory of all lands.</hi>&mdash;He promised to bring them in
<pb n='457'/><anchor id='Pg457'/>
the resurrection, if faithful, into the <q>mansion</q> prepared
for them&mdash;Heaven itself, the most glorious condition in
God's Universe.
</p>

<p>
20:7. <hi rend='sans'>Then said I unto them, Cast ye away every man
the abominations of his eyes, and defile not yourselves with
the idols of Egypt: I am the Lord your God.</hi>&mdash;God had
told them to cast away all filthiness of the flesh and the
spirit (2 Cor. 7:1), to do away with the desire of things
seen with the fleshly eyes (1 John 2:16), and no longer to
defile themselves spiritually with cravings for earthly
power. But while professing Christ's name, they rebelled
in their heart against God, and would not listen to Him.
</p>

<p>
20:8. <hi rend='sans'>But they rebelled against Me, and would not
hearken unto Me: they did not every man cast away the
abominations of their eyes, neither did they forsake the
idols of Egypt: then I said, I will pour out My fury upon
them, to accomplish My anger against them in the midst
of the land of Egypt.</hi>&mdash;Over and over, throughout the Gospel
Age, God was indignant enough to bring destruction
upon them; but He did not, in order that His name and
reputation might not come into disrespect among the
worldly people, who were taught by professing Christians
that God was with them.
</p>

<p>
20:9, 10. <hi rend='sans'>But I wrought for My name's sake, that it should
not be polluted before the heathen, among whom they
were, in whose sight I made Myself known unto them, in
bringing them forth out of the land of Egypt. Wherefore
I caused them to go forth out of the land of Egypt, and
brought them into the wilderness.</hi>&mdash;God's Word views professing
Christians also as in the wilderness condition of
separateness from and ostracism by the worldly&mdash;as
<q>brought forth out of the land of Egypt.</q>
</p>

<p>
20:12. <hi rend='sans'>Moreover also I gave them My sabbaths, to be a
sign between Me and them, that they might know that I
am the Lord that sanctifieth them.</hi>&mdash;He gave them the
privilege of entering in advance of the world into His
sabbath (Millennial) rest&mdash;the rest of peace with God by
faith, of justification freely given through the blood of the
<pb n='458'/><anchor id='Pg458'/>
Son of God. The Lord Himself set them apart for His
holy service.
</p>

<p>
20:13. <hi rend='sans'>But the house of Israel rebelled against Me in
the wilderness: they walked not in My statutes, and they
despised My judgments, which if a man do, he shall even
live in them; and My sabbaths they greatly polluted: then
I said, I would pour out My fury upon them in the wilderness,
to consume them.</hi>&mdash;As a class, professed Christians
have rebelled against being in the wilderness condition of
separateness from and ostracism by the worldly. They
have lived not according to the Law of Divine Love, but
have despised the opportunities of the trial period. They
have despised the Scriptural doctrine of the Millennium,
and have made a common thing of the rest of faith by
introducing all kinds of penances, masses, alms, and other
deeds whereby to earn the peace with God, freely offered
through faith in Jesus' atoning Sacrifice. Often was God
indignant enough to destroy them.
</p>

<p>
20:14. <hi rend='sans'>But I wrought for My name's sake, that it should
not be polluted before the heathen, in whose sight I brought
them out.</hi>&mdash;But for His own name's sake, not theirs, God
refrained from permitting the Time of Trouble to come
before the appointed time, that the people of this world
might not belittle Him and His protecting power.
</p>

<p>
20:15, 16. <hi rend='sans'>Yet also I lifted up My hand unto them in
the wilderness, that I would not bring them into the land
which I had given them, flowing with milk and honey,
which is the glory of all lands; because they despised My
judgments, and walked not in My statutes, but polluted
My sabbaths: for their heart went after their idols.</hi>&mdash;Yet
the Word of God has made it plain that those in the wilderness
condition who have not given their whole heart
to God shall not be changed to the spirit nature and
brought to the Heavenly plane of being.
</p>

<p>
20:17-21. <hi rend='sans'>Nevertheless Mine eye spared them from destroying
them, neither did I make an end of them in the
wilderness. But I said unto their children in the wilderness,
Walk ye not in the statutes of your fathers, neither
observe their judgments, nor defile yourselves with their
idols: I am the Lord your God; walk in My statutes, and
keep My judgments, and do them; and hallow My sabbaths;
and they shall be a sign between Me and you, that
ye may know that I am the Lord your God. Notwithstanding,
the children rebelled against Me; they walked not in
My statutes, neither kept My judgments to do them, which
if a man do, he shall even live in them; they polluted My
sabbaths: then I said, I would pour out My fury upon them
to accomplish My anger against them in the wilderness.</hi>&mdash;God
<pb n='459'/><anchor id='Pg459'/>
did not at once destroy those in the wilderness condition,
but gave the same fatherly admonition to those
who succeeded them, all in vain.
</p>

<p>
20:22-24. <hi rend='sans'>Nevertheless I withdrew Mine hand, and
wrought for My name's sake, that it should not be polluted
in the sight of the heathen, in whose sight I brought them
forth. I lifted up Mine hand unto them also in the wilderness,
that I would scatter them among the heathen, and
disperse them through the countries; because they had not
executed My judgments, but had despised My statutes, and
had polluted My sabbaths, and their eyes, were after their
fathers' idols.</hi>&mdash;God repeated His forbearance, in not scattering
them back into the world, nor destroying them.
</p>

<p>
20:25. <hi rend='sans'>Wherefore I gave them also statutes that were
not good, and judgments whereby they should not live.</hi>&mdash;At
last God gave them up <q>to their own heart's desires</q>
(Psa. 81:12), to <q>worship the hosts of heaven,</q> their own
pulpit stars (Acts 7:42), who <q>changed the truth of God
into a lie,</q> into <q>human traditions,</q> and <q>worshipped and
served created things rather than the Creator</q> (Rom.
1:25)&mdash;following evil statutes, <q>customs,</q> and enduring
worldly trials and temptations, bringing them, not life, but
death.
</p>

<p>
20:26. <hi rend='sans'>And I polluted them in their own gifts, in that
they caused to pass through the fire all that openeth the
womb, that I might make them desolate, to the end that
they might know that I am the Lord.</hi>&mdash;God gave them up
to doctrinal pollutions, in that they believed in and worshipped
the eternal torment god, Moloch, the Devil, and
singed, scorched spiritually, with the fear of <q>the hot
place,</q> all their children, those young in nominal Christianity.
(Jer. 32:35.) This caused them to be desolate,
deserted, abandoned by the true God, like the heathen
without God&mdash;though not that God might ultimately destroy
them; for in the Times of Restitution they will by contrast
appreciate the true God.
</p>

<p>
20:27-28. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore, son of man, speak unto the house
of Israel, and say unto them, Thus saith the Lord God; Yet
in this your fathers have blasphemed Me, in that they have
committed a trespass against Me. For when I had brought
them into the land, for the which I lifted up Mine hand to
give it to them, then they saw every high hill, and all the
thick trees, and they offered there their sacrifices, and
there they presented the provocation of their offering:
there also they made their sweet savour, and poured out
there their drink offerings.</hi>&mdash;The Christian's course was
typed by the experience of the Hebrews in the land of
Canaan (Isa. 57:5), in the blessedness of Divine favor and
<pb n='460'/><anchor id='Pg460'/>
in the abundance of God's gifts. When brought into this
condition of favor, instead of being thankful and giving
their whole hearts to God in devoted consecration, the
great mass of professing Christians committed the same
abominations that the heathen were guilty of&mdash;union of
church with worldly power, making the high ones the
heads of the church, as the King of England and the Czar
of Russia; doing homage to all of earth's great ones (the
thick trees); rendering service and obedience (sweet
savor) to traditions of men; and preaching (pouring out)
strong doctrines, intoxicating wine of their mixed teachings
(drink offerings).
</p>

<p>
20:29. <hi rend='sans'>Then I said unto them, What is the high place
whereunto ye go? And the name thereof is called Bamah
unto this day.</hi>&mdash;In verse 29 Ezekiel speaks with contempt
of the Hebrew apostasy. He uses a play upon words, not
apparent in the English translation. He asks them, <q>Mah
ba</q> (Where go?), and answers, <q>Ba-mah</q> (the high places)
is the name to this day. Pastor Russell frequently spoke
with contempt&mdash;deserved, from the Divine viewpoint&mdash;of
the <q>high-place,</q> nominal church, her clergy and her laity,
always going to the <q>high ones.</q>
</p>

<p>
20:30. <hi rend='sans'>Wherefore say unto the house of Israel, Thus
saith the Lord God; Are ye polluted after the manner of
your fathers? and commit ye whoredom after their abominations?</hi>&mdash;Again,
in the phase of captivity in <q>Babylon,</q>
the Lord's people were guilty of doctrinal and moral pollution
and of illicit union of church and earthly power.
</p>

<p>
20:31. <hi rend='sans'>For when ye offer your gifts, when ye make your
sons to pass through the fire, ye pollute yourselves with
all your idols, even unto this day: and shall I be inquired
of by you, O house of Israel? As I live, saith the Lord
God, I will not be inquired of by you.</hi>&mdash;God will not even
listen to the prayers of such professed Christians.
</p>

<p>
20:32. <hi rend='sans'>And that which cometh into your mind shall not
be all, that ye say, We will be as the heathen, as the families
of the countries, to serve wood and stone.</hi>&mdash;Their
heart's real desire to become good-fellows in the world's
fellowship (Jer. 44:17) shall fail.
</p>

<p>
20:33. <hi rend='sans'>As I live, saith the Lord God, surely with a
mighty hand, and with a stretched out arm, and with fury
poured out, will I rule over you.</hi>&mdash;God began at the appointed
time, 1914, to punish the accumulated sins of
Christendom <q>with a mighty hand (power) and with a
stretched out arm</q> (Christ present the Second time, Isa.
53:1), and with fury poured out <q>a great Time of Trouble
such as never was</q> (Dan. 12:1), and which the Lord declared
would never require a repetition.
</p>

<pb n='461'/><anchor id='Pg461'/>

<p>
20:34. <hi rend='sans'>And I will bring you out from the people, and
will gather you out of the countries wherein ye are scattered,
with a mighty hand, and with a stretched out arm,
and with fury poured out.</hi>&mdash;But even this tribulation will
be done in a Father's love and for the good of His erring
children, to cleanse them. Through this trouble God will
search out all professed Christians, make them manifestly
separate from the openly worldly.&mdash;Z. '94-76.
</p>

<p>
20:35. <hi rend='sans'>And I will bring you into the wilderness of the
people, and there will I plead with you face to face.</hi>&mdash;God
will bring them into a wilderness condition of separateness
from the world and of ostracism and persecution by the
revolutionary and anarchistic masses, and face to face He
will plead with the nominal church to forsake evil and
idolatry.
</p>

<p>
20:36. <hi rend='sans'>Like as I pleaded with your fathers in the wilderness
of the land of Egypt, so will I plead with you, saith
the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;As He did with the Hebrews in their trial
time in the Wilderness of Sinai.
</p>

<p>
20:37. <hi rend='sans'>And I will cause you to pass under the rod, and
I will bring you into the bond of the covenant.</hi>&mdash;God will
cause His people, all those not utterly devoid of the Holy
Spirit&mdash;<q>the Great Company</q> in the churches&mdash;to pass
under the rod of correction and to resume their fidelity to
their vow of consecration.
</p>

<p>
20:38. <hi rend='sans'>And I will purge out from among you the rebels,
and them that transgress against Me: I will bring them
forth out of the country where they sojourn, and they shall
not enter into the land of Israel: and ye shall know that
I am the Lord.</hi>&mdash;He will permit conditions of persecution
by Socialists, revolutionists, syndicalists, nihilists and anarchists,
against persons professing Christianity (<q>the religion
that got the world into trouble</q>), such that every
person not possessing the Holy Spirit will renounce all
pretense of being Christian and will get out of the deplorable
condition (country) wherein the true Christians will
be. This outcast class, being entirely <q>of the earth,
earthy,</q> shall not enter the spiritual phase of the Kingdom.
</p>

<p>
20:39. <hi rend='sans'>As for you, O house of Israel, thus saith the
Lord God; Go ye, serve ye every one his idols, and hereafter
also, if ye will not hearken unto Me: but pollute ye
My holy name no more with your gifts, and with your idols.</hi>&mdash;Let
who will then serve their idols; but they shall no
longer associate themselves with God's children, nor falsely
bear the name of Christ, nor pollute God's holy name nor
His Church with their presence or their practices. <q>If the
Lord be God, <emph>follow Him</emph>; if Baal, follow <emph>him</emph>.</q>
</p>

<pb n='462'/><anchor id='Pg462'/>

<p>
20:40. <hi rend='sans'>For in Mine holy mountain, in the mountain of
the height of Israel, saith the Lord God, there shall all
the house of Israel, all of them in the land, serve Me:
there will I accept them, and there will I require your offerings,
and the first fruits of your oblations, with all your
holy things.</hi>&mdash;God wounds to heal. In the real <q>high
places,</q> the Kingdom of God now at hand, planned for
man's blessed restitution, all who are truly God's shall
serve Him, some in the spiritual phase of the Kingdom,
some in the earthly phase. (Mal. 3:3, 4.) There God will
accept all comers, <q>The Spirit and the Bride say, Come
... and whosoever will, let him take of the Water of
Life freely</q> (Rev. 22:17.) There God will accept their
offerings of themselves in heartfelt consecration, and the
first and best of their offerings and all their possessions,
then hallowed by the influences of the Kingdom of Love.
</p>

<p>
20:41. <hi rend='sans'>I will accept you with your sweet savour, when
I bring you out from the people, and gather you out of
the countries wherein ye have been scattered, and I will
be sanctified in you before the heathen.</hi>&mdash;God will accept
their heart's best endeavors (incense), when He gathers
His children&mdash;His spirit children and His earth children&mdash;out
from the prison-house of death, and out from the dark
shadows of a world-wide heathenism. Then God win be
seen to be holy, sanctified, in His children, in the sight of
all the Satan-blinded idolaters of earth.
</p>

<p>
20:42. <hi rend='sans'>And ye shall know that I am the Lord, when I
shall bring you into the land of Israel, into the country
for the which I lifted up Mine hand to give it to your
fathers.</hi>&mdash;God's children, who have not known Him as He
is, will know Him then as the God of infinite Justice,
Wisdom, Love and Power,&mdash;when they shall be established
in the Kingdom, in whatever phase they are fitted for&mdash;the
Kingdom whose earthly phase God promised to give
to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob and all the Ancient Worthies
(Psa. 45:16), and whose Heavenly phase He covenanted
to give to the spirit class of the Gospel Age.&mdash;Heb. 11:40.
</p>

<p>
20:43. <hi rend='sans'>And there shall ye remember your ways, and
all your doings, wherein ye have been defiled; and ye shall
loathe yourselves in your own sight for all your evils that
ye have committed.</hi>&mdash;Then those who have not loved the
God of Love as they should shall remember their former
ways and loathe themselves for the evil done against such
Love Divine.
</p>

<p>
20:44. <hi rend='sans'>And ye shall know that I am the Lord, when I
have wrought with you for My name's sake, not according
to your wicked ways, nor according to your corrupt doings,
O ye house of Israel, saith the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;They will humbly,
<pb n='463'/><anchor id='Pg463'/>
thankfully and with fervent gratitude and love know
that Jehovah, who is Love (1 John 4:8), dealt with them,
for the carrying out of His all holy purposes, and not as
Justice might have called for in connection with their
ways.
</p>

<p>
20:45, 46. <hi rend='sans'>Moreover the Word of the Lord came unto me,
saying, Son of man, set thy face toward the south, and
drop thy word toward the south, and prophesy against the
forest of the south field.</hi>&mdash;The words of Ezekiel return to
the impending destruction of Jerusalem&mdash;of Christendom.
Pastor Russell was to speak, as from the Divine viewpoint
(the North) against the multitudes (trees in the forest)
in the earthly phase (the south) of the Kingdom of God,
already established invisibly by God in 1878-1914. Jerusalem
(ecclesiasticism) was in a southerly direction (belonging
to the earth, earthy), from the Prophet's point of
view.
</p>

<p>
20:47. <hi rend='sans'>And say to the forest of the south, Hear the
word of the Lord; Thus saith the Lord God; Behold I will
kindle a fire in thee, and it shall devour every dry tree:
the flaming flame shall not be quenched, and all faces from
the south to the north shall be burned therein.</hi>&mdash;God permitted
in 1914 the kindling of the present unquenchable
conflagration of war, and of revolution and anarchy to
come. Righteous (green tree) and wicked (dry tree) alike
are to suffer in the fiery trials of the trouble time. All
who are of the earth, earthy (of the south, earthly phase
of the Kingdom), but who pretend or claim to be of the
spiritual phase, to have the Holy Spirit (look toward the
north, the spiritual), are to be burned, as the tares are
burned after the gathering of the wheat into the Heavenly
garner.&mdash;Matt. 13:30.
</p>

<p>
20:48. <hi rend='sans'>And all flesh shall see that I the Lord have
kindled it: it shall not be quenched.</hi>&mdash;All mankind will
understand, before the Time of Trouble is over, that <q>the
strange work</q> is of Jehovah.
</p>

<p>
20:49. <hi rend='sans'>Then said I, Ah Lord God! they say of me, Doth
he not speak parables?</hi>&mdash;The people of ecclesiasticism, misled
by the clergy, are unable to understand Pastor Russell's
teachings regarding the trouble, or to get the Divine viewpoint.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>There are great truths that pitch their shining tents</q></l>
<l>Outside our walls, and though but dimly seen</l>
<l>In the gray dawn, they will be manifest</l>
<l><q rend='post'>When the light widens into perfect day.</q></l>
</lg>
</quote>

</div>

<pb n='464'/><anchor id='Pg464'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 21&mdash;The Thrice-Doubled Sword</head>

<p>
21:1, 2. <hi rend='sans'>And the word of the Lord came unto me, saying,
Son of man, set thy face toward Jerusalem, and drop thy
word toward the holy places, and prophesy against the land
of Israel.</hi>&mdash;The Lord has drawn the sword against Jerusalem
and sharpened and pointed it in fury. (21:1-17.)
The king of Babylon (Satan) uses divination as to the
route by which to bring the sword against Jerusalem; the
Jews deride such a method (21:18-24), but the Hebrew
crown is to be overturned. (21:25-57.) The Ammonites
(aggressive worldly believers), too, are to be given to the
sword.&mdash;21:28-32.
</p>

<p>
21:3. <hi rend='sans'>And say to the land of Israel, Thus saith the Lord:
Behold, I am against thee, and will draw forth My sword
out of its sheath, and will cut off from thee the righteous
and the wicked.</hi>&mdash;Jehovah is against Christendom, has
drawn against it both the literal weapons of war, in warfare
and revolution, and the Sword of the Spirit, the Word
of God. (Eph. 6:17.) He will cause both righteous and
wicked to die in the Time of Trouble; and by His Word
He will bring about conditions such that all wicked professing
Christians will abandon all pretense of Christianity,
and the righteous will <q>come out of her</q> (Rev.
18:4) and be gathered as wheat into the Divine garner&mdash;Heaven.
</p>

<p>
21:4. <hi rend='sans'>Seeing then that I will cut off from thee the
righteous and the wicked, therefore shall My sword go
forth out of his sheath against all flesh from the south to
the north.</hi>&mdash;Cannon, rifle, shot, shell, bomb and torpedo
shall be unleashed and turned against all flesh, from those
of the earthly (of the south) to those having the Holy
Spirit (of the north). The Word of God will be taken out
of its sheath of mystery and plainly show the meaning of
this trouble, and that it is to be upon all.
</p>

<p>
21:5. <hi rend='sans'>That all flesh may know that I the Lord have
drawn forth My sword out of its sheath: it shall not return
any more.</hi>&mdash;All the people shall know that the trouble
has come from Jehovah, and that its consummation is a
certainty.
</p>

<p>
21:6. <hi rend='sans'>Sigh therefore, thou son of man, with the breaking
of thy loins; and with bitterness sigh before their eyes.</hi>&mdash;Pastor
<pb n='465'/><anchor id='Pg465'/>
Russell and the Truth people have carried a heavy
heart burden in this message of the ills coming upon
Christendom.
</p>

<p>
21:7. <hi rend='sans'>And it shall be, when they say unto thee, Wherefore
sighed thou? that thou shalt answer, For the tidings,
because it cometh. And every heart shall melt, and all
hands shall be feeble, and every spirit shall faint, and all
knees shall be weak as water: behold, it cometh, and shall
be brought to pass, saith the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;For the days are
near when even the strongest shall falter.
</p>

<p>
21:8, 9. <hi rend='sans'>Again the word of the Lord came unto me,
saying, Son of man, prophesy, and say, Thus saith the
Lord; Say, A sword, a sword is sharpened, and also furbished.</hi>&mdash;Modern
weapons of destruction are brought to a
hitherto unknown efficiency, as is the Sword of the Spirit
in the hands of the <q>feet</q> members of Christ.&mdash;Isa. 52:7.
</p>

<p>
21:10. <hi rend='sans'>It is sharpened to make a sore slaughter; it is
furbished that it may glitter: should We then make mirth?
it contemneth the rod of My Son, as every tree.</hi>&mdash;The
weapons of war will make a frightful slaughter among
men; and the Sword of the Spirit, the Word of God, will
cause millions to cast off Christianity. It glitters with
flashes of enlightenment reflected from the risen Sun of
Righteousness, which to its idolatrous enemies are gleamings
of trouble and distress. Who could rejoice over the
trouble? Not the Lord's people; for it presages the destruction
of the power (rod) of all professing to be of the
Son of God, together with all their institutions.
</p>

<p>
21:11. <hi rend='sans'>And he hath given it to be furbished, that it may
be handled: this sword is sharpened, and it is furbished, to
give it into the hand of the slayer.</hi>&mdash;It is given, bright and
sharp, to be swung in the hand of skillful slayers.
</p>

<p>
21:12, 13. <hi rend='sans'>Cry and howl, son of man; for it shall be upon
My people, it shall be upon all the princes of Israel: terrors
by reason of the sword shall be upon My people: smite
therefore upon thy thigh. Because it is a trial, and what if
the sword contemn even the rod? it shall be no more, saith
the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;The destruction by the weapons of war and
by the Word of God shall be upon <q>My [professed] people,</q>
upon all the clergy (princes). Fear shall take hold of
churchianity.
</p>

<p>
21:14. <hi rend='sans'>Thou therefore, son of man, prophesy, and smite
thine hands together, and let the sword be doubled the
third time, the sword of the slain: it is the sword of the
great men that are slain, which entereth into their privy
chambers.</hi>&mdash;Pastor Russell was to give expression to the
final wrath of Jehovah. The destruction will be of double
<pb n='466'/><anchor id='Pg466'/>
severity three times&mdash;in war, revolution and anarchy. The
Sword of the Spirit was to be wielded by Pastor Russell
twice three times, in his six volumes of <hi rend='italic'>Studies in the
Scriptures</hi>. The weapons of destruction will pursue all
the great ones of earth, penetrating into all their most
secret places. The Sword of the Spirit will search out all
the lords of God's heritage (1 Pet. 5:3), the clergy, exposing
their inmost ideas contrary to Jehovah and His Plan.
</p>

<p>
21:15. <hi rend='sans'>I have set the point of the sword against all
their gates, that their heart may faint, and their ruins be
multiplied: ah! it is made bright, it is wrapped up for the
slaughter.</hi>&mdash;The point of the sword against ecclesiasticism,
revealing its true nature and imminent fall, is the present
exposition of the prophecies of Revelation and Ezekiel.
The Hebrew says that it is made <q>lightning brightness.</q>
It is an illumination of the whole Babylonish system, for
ages wrapped in the mystery of types and symbolisms.
How gladly the clergy would have destroyed these two
books of the Bible, had they known what they taught!
</p>

<p>
21:16. <hi rend='sans'>Go thee one way or the other, either on the right
hand, or on the left, whithersoever thy face is set.</hi>&mdash;Wheresoever
Pastor Russell and the Truth people set their face
to go, it is authorized for them by the Lord.
</p>

<p>
21:17. <hi rend='sans'>I will also smite Mine hands together, and I will
cause My fury to rest: I the Lord have said it.</hi>&mdash;God will
manifest His anger and cause His fury to rest upon ecclesiasticism.
</p>

<p>
21:18, 19. <hi rend='sans'>And the Word of the Lord came unto me
again, saying, Also, thou son of man, appoint thee two
ways, that the sword of the king of Babylon may come:
both twain shall come forth out of one land: and choose
thou a place, choose it at the head of the way to the city.</hi>&mdash;There
were two ways that the weapons of war, revolution
and anarchy might strike; in either way the blow would
come from Satan, the king of anarchy. It was to come
from Riblah, the fork of the roads. Riblah means <q>desolate.</q>
Since 1878 the worldly churches, and since 1914
the worldly governments, have been <q>left desolate</q> (Matt.
23:38) and subject, the one to desolation by the Sword of
the Spirit, the other to desolation by carnal weapons.
</p>

<p>
21:20. <hi rend='sans'>Appoint a way, that the sword may come to
Rabbath of the Ammonites, and to Judah in Jerusalem
the defenced.</hi>&mdash;The sword might go east of Jordan against
the Ammonites (Amos 1:14; Jer. 49:2), or west of Jordan,
directly at Jerusalem, first of all. It might strike the Great
(Rabbath) Company (Rev. 7:9) of <q>fellow companions</q>
(Psa. 45:14) (Ammonites), or directly and first strike
against churchianity (Judah) and ecclesiasticism proper&mdash;<q>the
<pb n='467'/><anchor id='Pg467'/>
fenced off,</q> exclusive, superior, <q>best</q> people, hitherto
so thoroughly defended from harm.
</p>

<p>
21:21. <hi rend='sans'>For the king of Babylon stood at the parting of
the way, at the head of the two ways, to use divination: he
made his arrows bright, he consulted with images, he
looked in the liver.</hi>&mdash;The forces that will overthrow Christendom
are thoroughly under the influence and guidance of
evil spirits&mdash;as is suggested by the shuffling of arrows
named for the two cities, by the consulting of idols (theories),
and by the looking in the liver (spiritism), by interpretation.
The Devil chooses bitter words (arrows)
(Psa. 64:3), consults evil spirits (images), and is guided
even in his opposition to Jehovah by his own interpretations
of Scripture.&mdash;Matt. 4:6; 2 Cor. 11:14.
</p>

<p>
21:22. <hi rend='sans'>At his right hand was the divination for Jerusalem,
to appoint captains, to open the mouth in the
slaughter, to lift up the voice with shouting, to appoint
battering rams against the gates, to cast a mount, and to
build a fort.</hi>&mdash;The proof from the Scriptures shows that the
evil spirits directed that the revolutionary and anarchistic
movement should proceed first to the destruction of Christendom.
The ex-Czar of Russia was a spiritualist, and
maintained mediums for consultation. Kaiser Wilhelm
of Germany, for years prior to the great war, followed the
guidance of a demon which spoke to him clairaudiently,
urging him to his present course. A surprising number of
prominent men consult spirit mediums. The voice of the
spirits was for war by every conceivable means, nation
against nation, but destined to effect the desolation of
ecclesiasticism as well.
</p>

<p>
21:23. <hi rend='sans'>And it shall be unto them as a false divination
in their sight, to them that have sworn oaths: but He will
call to remembrance the iniquity, that they may be taken.</hi>&mdash;In
the sight of those that have sworn allegiance to ecclesiasticism's
god, the father of lies, this true prediction of
the downfall of the nations will seem an erroneous expectation&mdash;as
it has appeared to all the great ones of
Christendom. They have thought that this war would be
as other wars. But the end of the Age (world) has come;
and ecclesiasticism's iniquities shall no longer go unpunished.
</p>

<p>
21:24. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore thus saith the Lord God; Because ye
have made your iniquity to be remembered, in that your
transgressions are discovered, so that in all your doings
your sins do appear; because, I say, that ye are come to
<pb n='468'/><anchor id='Pg468'/>
remembrance, ye shall be taken with the hand.</hi>&mdash;Universal
muck-raking by Socialists, Anarchists, magazine writers,
social surveyors and reformers has caused Christendom's
forgotten iniquities to be freshly remembered, and her
transgressions uncovered, so that there is no department&mdash;commercial,
financial, political or religious&mdash;in which her
sinful practices do not appear. These things God has permitted
to be made manifest that she may be taken red-handed.
</p>

<p>
21:25. <hi rend='sans'>And thou, profane wicked prince of Israel, whose
day is come, when iniquity shall have an end.</hi>&mdash;The profane
and wicked prince of the Jews was Zedekiah, their
last king. (A. 248; Z. '04-343.) The antitype is churchianity's
lordly class, the clergy, profaning the holy Temple
of God, the Church, the Body of Christ, with doctrines of
devils (1 Tim. 4:1), as wicked in the sight of God as were
their prototypes, the scribes, doctors and Pharisees, with
their hypocritical pretense of holiness. Their time has
come&mdash;1918&mdash;when iniquity in the House of the Sons of
God shall have an end.
</p>

<p>
21:26. <hi rend='sans'>Thus saith the Lord God; Remove the diadem,
and take off the crown: this shall not be the same: exalt
him that is low, and abase him that is high.</hi>&mdash;Thus says
Almighty God: Remove the mitre (mistranslated <q>diadem</q>).
The mitre was a band of linen about the forehead,
typing the righteousness of Christ, supposed to be in the
minds of the clergy, but no more actually in them as a
class than in whited sepulchres. (Matt. 23:27.) The king
wore a golden crown on his head, held there by a white
linen mitre. (A. 248; B. 76, 79; Z. '98-359.) The clergy, the
lords of God's heritage, have crowned themselves with the
rulership of earth, in the person of the pope and in the
general desire of clergymen to rule in the affairs of men,
a lordship based upon their supposed righteousness
(mitre). This great crisis will not be like the temporary
setbacks of ecclesiasticism in past centuries. The lowly,
revolutionary, anarchistic masses will exalt themselves to
power in the Time of Trouble, and the lofty clergy shall be
utterly abased.&mdash;Matt. 23:12.
</p>

<p>
21:27. <hi rend='sans'>I will overturn, overturn, overturn it; and it shall
be no more, until He come whose right it is; and I will
give it Him.</hi>&mdash;In warfare, revolution and anarchy Jehovah
will triply overthrow Christendom until Christ in great
power will take the crown and rule the affairs of earth.&mdash;E. <hi rend='italic'>147</hi>,
133; A. 248; B. 76, 79; Z. '05-253; H. 61.
</p>

<p>
21:28. <hi rend='sans'>And thou, son of man, prophesy and say, Thus
saith the Lord God concerning the Ammonites, and concerning
their reproach; even say thou, The sword, the
<pb n='469'/><anchor id='Pg469'/>
sword is drawn: for the slaughter it is furbished, to consume
because of the glittering.</hi>&mdash;Nor will the openly
worldly, professing Christian escape, for war, revolution
and anarchy are abroad&mdash;<q>the sword is drawn</q>&mdash;to consume
the worldly, too.
</p>

<p>
21:29. <hi rend='sans'>While they see vanity unto thee, while they
divine a lie unto thee, to bring thee upon the necks of them
that are slain, of the wicked, whose day is come, when their
iniquity shall have an end.</hi>&mdash;Destruction will come even
when the worldly-wise are mistakenly asserting that it
will not come nigh them.
</p>

<p>
21:30. <hi rend='sans'>Shall I cause it to return into his sheath? I will
judge thee in the place where thou wast created, in the
land of thy nativity.</hi>&mdash;The tribulation shall not be quieted&mdash;the
sword shall not <q>return unto his sheath;</q> for God will
condemn the worldly Christian also, in the condition of
unbelief wherein they have been.
</p>

<p>
21:31. <hi rend='sans'>And I will pour out Mine indignation upon thee;
I will blow against thee in the fire of My wrath, and deliver
thee into the hand of brutish men, and skilful to destroy.</hi>&mdash;God
will pour out His wrath upon the worldly professing
Christians. He will blow upon them fiery blasts of war,
revolution and anarchy. They shall be delivered into the
hands of a revolted soldiery, brutal, destructive, pitiless,
skilled in the arts of slaughter, taught by Teutons and
Allies to know the utmost efficiency in war. The Sword
of the Spirit, the Word of God, too, will be in the hands
of consecrated ones, seemingly but not actually cruel,
skilled through Divine power to use it with telling effect.
</p>

<p>
21:32. <hi rend='sans'>Thou shalt be for fuel to the fire; thy blood shall
be in the midst of the land; thou shalt be no more remembered:
for I the Lord have spoken it.</hi>&mdash;Institutions Divinely
condemned shall be as fuel for the fires of bloody anarchy
and pass into oblivion. The war is the melting-pot of ecclesiasticism.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>Beautiful hands are they that do</q></l>
<l>The work of the noble, good and true,</l>
<l>Busy for them the long day through;</l>
<l>Beautiful faces&mdash;they that wear</l>
<l>The light of a pleasing spirit there,</l>
<l>It matters little if dark or fair;</l>
<l>And truly beautiful in God's sight,</l>
<l><q rend='post'>Are the precious souls who love the right.</q></l>
</lg>
</quote>

</div>

<pb n='470'/><anchor id='Pg470'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 22&mdash;The Melting Pot Of War</head>

<p>
22:1-4. <hi rend='sans'>Moreover the word of the Lord came unto me,
saying, Now, thou son of man, wilt thou judge, wilt thou
judge the bloody city? yea, thou shalt shew her all her
abominations, then say thou, Thus saith the Lord God; the
city sheddeth blood in the midst of it, that her time may
come, and maketh idols against herself to defile herself.
Thou art become guilty in thy blood that thou hast shed;
and hast defiled thyself in thine idols which thou hast
made; and thou hast caused thy days to draw near, and
art come even unto thy years: therefore have I made thee
a reproach unto the heathen, and a mocking to all countries.</hi>&mdash;In
Chapter 22 the various iniquities of Jerusalem
are related. (22:1-12.) Their punishment is described under
the figure of a melting-pot. (22:13-22.) Christendom, and
especially ecclesiasticism, is guilty of bloodshed and of defiling
paganism. This, by a natural process, has brought
about a situation which could not continue. The present
outbreak of evil and trouble, in view of the lofty pretenses
of the past, has made paganized Christendom a byword
among acknowledgedly pagan peoples.&mdash;D. 72.
</p>

<p>
22:5. <hi rend='sans'>Those that be near, and those that be far from
thee, shall mock thee, which art infamous and much
vexed.</hi>&mdash;The unbelievers, both in and out of <q>Christian</q>
countries, scoff at <q>Christendom</q>&mdash;now defiled of name and
<q>full of tumult.</q>
</p>

<p>
22:6. <hi rend='sans'>Behold, the princes of Israel, every one were in
thee to their power to shed blood.</hi>&mdash;In Christendom all the
rulers, in the mania for war, have used every power to
promote bloodshed. The spiritual rulers have, by false
teachings, destroyed the spiritual hopes of millions.&mdash;Luke
11:52.
</p>

<p>
22:7. <hi rend='sans'>In thee have they set light by father and mother:
in the midst of thee have they dealt by oppression with
the stranger: in thee have they vexed the fatherless and
the widow.</hi>&mdash;They have dealt unjustly by the classes needing
help. Spiritually they have despised our Father and
His Covenant of Grace, and oppressed those who are His
pilgrims and strangers in the world.&mdash;1 Pet. 1:1.
</p>

<pb n='471'/><anchor id='Pg471'/>

<p>
22:8. <hi rend='sans'>Thou hast despised Mine holy things, and hast
profaned My sabbaths.</hi>&mdash;They have despised the holy
teachings of God's Word, respecting the seventh thousand-year
Day of rest, and have attempted justification by
works instead of in the rest of faith.
</p>

<p>
22:9. <hi rend='sans'>In thee are men that carry tales to shed blood:
and in thee they eat upon the mountains: in the midst of
thee they commit lewdness.</hi>&mdash;In the churches are gossipers,
evil speakers, assassins of reputation. In them are some
that feast at the tables of devils (1 Tim. 4:1; 1 Cor. 10:21),
like lords or rulers at the heads of the nations; they long
for unhallowed church-state union.
</p>

<p>
22:10, 11. <hi rend='sans'>In thee have they discovered their fathers'
nakedness; in thee have they humbled her that was set
apart for pollution. And one hath committed abomination
with his neighbor's wife; and another hath lewdly defiled
his daughter-in-law; and another in thee hath humbled his
sister, his father's daughter.</hi>&mdash;They have not only made
state-churches in every possible direction, but have been
in vast numbers guilty of sexual immorality.
</p>

<p>
22:12. <hi rend='sans'>In thee have they taken gifts to shed blood; thou
hast taken usury and increase, and thou hast greedily
gained of thy neighbors by extortion, and hast forgotten
Me, saith the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;They have used the gifts of God
for evil purposes, even to slay God's holy martyrs; they
have even practised extortion upon those close to them.
This they have done because they have forgotten the Lord.
</p>

<p>
22:13. <hi rend='sans'>Behold, therefore I have smitten Mine hand at
thy dishonest gain which thou hast made, and at thy blood
which hath been in the midst of thee.</hi>&mdash;God has shown
plain signs of anger against ecclesiasticism's hypocrisy
and her spirit of murder.
</p>

<p>
22:14. <hi rend='sans'>Can thine heart endure, or can thine hands be
strong, in the days that I shall deal with thee? I the Lord
have spoken it, and will do it.</hi>&mdash;Her heart must fail her,
and her powers weaken, before an abused conscience, in
the days when God will deal with her iniquities.
</p>

<p>
22:15. <hi rend='sans'>And I will scatter thee among the heathen, and
disperse thee in the countries, and will consume thy filthiness
out of thee.</hi>&mdash;He will scatter the ecclesiastics and by
fiery trials consume the uncleanness out of ecclesiasticism.
</p>

<p>
22:16. <hi rend='sans'>And thou shalt take thine inheritance in thyself
in the sight of the heathen, and thou shalt know that I am
the Lord.</hi>&mdash;She shall be profaned, desecrated and destroyed
in the sight of earth's nations.
</p>

<p>
22:17, 18. <hi rend='sans'>And the word of the Lord came unto me, saying,
Son of man, the house of Israel is to Me become dross;
all they are brass, and tin, and iron, and lead, in the midst
<pb n='472'/><anchor id='Pg472'/>
of the furnace; they are even the dross of silver.</hi>&mdash;Ecclesiasticism,
clergy and laity alike, are to the just and holy
God become as the refuse of the baser metals in a fiery
furnace of affliction; they are the dross of the Great Company
(silver). (Jer. 6:30.) The baser metals type degrees
of earthly natures; brass (human perfection), tin (tares,
begotten of error), iron (savage worldly power), and lead
(sin, iniquity).
</p>

<p>
22:19. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore thus saith the Lord God; Because ye
are all become dross, behold, therefore I will gather you
into the midst of Jerusalem.</hi>&mdash;God will gather the corrupt
peoples and the nations of Christendom.
</p>

<p>
22:20. <hi rend='sans'>As they gather silver, and brass, and iron, and
lead, and tin, into the midst of the furnace, to blow the
fire upon it, to melt it; so will I gather you in Mine anger
and in My fury, and I will leave you there, and melt you.</hi>&mdash;This
great conglomeration of persons of all shades of baseness
shall be gathered as into a blast furnace, where God
will permit indescribable troubles to afflict them; and there
He will leave them.
</p>

<p>
22:21. <hi rend='sans'>Yea, I will gather you, and blow upon you in the
fire of My wrath, and ye shall be melted in the midst
thereof.</hi>&mdash;They are to be melted in heart and spirit in the
fiery afflictions of His wrath.
</p>

<p>
22:22. <hi rend='sans'>As silver is melted in the midst of the furnace,
so shall ye be melted in the midst thereof; and ye shall
know that I the Lord have poured out My fury upon you.</hi>&mdash;As
the Great Company of God's spirit-begotten children
have suffered by the millions, so shall it be with the clergy
and laity, who profess Christianity without its spirit.
</p>

<p>
22:23, 24. <hi rend='sans'>And the Word of the Lord came unto me,
saying, Son of man, say unto her, Thou art the land that
is not cleansed, nor rained upon in the day of indignation.</hi>&mdash;Christendom
in this Time of Trouble is without the
cleansing, refreshing showers of the water of God's Word.
</p>

<p>
22:25. <hi rend='sans'>There is a conspiracy of her prophets in the
midst thereof, like a roaring lion ravening the prey; they
have devoured souls; they have taken the treasure and
precious things; they have made her many widows in the
midst thereof.</hi>&mdash;Among the clergy there is a conspiracy
against the Truth. The <q>Federation of the [so-called]
Churches of Christ in America,</q> like a very devil (roaring
lion), will yet tear to pieces the Present Truth people, will
put many to death, and cause some weaker ones to lose
their spiritual lives. They will take and destroy the literature
containing the precious Bible truth. Literally the
preachers by preaching the men into war have made
widows by the millions.
</p>

<pb n='473'/><anchor id='Pg473'/>

<p>
22:26. <hi rend='sans'>Her priests have violated My law, and have profaned
Mine holy things: they have put no difference between
the holy and profane, neither have they shewed
difference between the unclean and the clean, and have
hid their eyes from My sabbaths, and I am profaned among
them.</hi>&mdash;The Roman Catholic priests&mdash;and the Protestant
clergy&mdash;have violated the Law of Divine Love; have polluted
God's truths with pagan teachings, have shown no
difference between those cleansed by the blood of Christ
and those still in their sins, have denied the Bible teaching
of the Millennium (Rev. 20:2-7), have hidden the Sabbath
rest of justification by faith, and have promoted a
money-grabbing system of penances and masses for sin and
of collections, which discredits and profanes God's name.
</p>

<p>
22:27. <hi rend='sans'>Her princes in the midst thereof are like wolves
ravening the prey, to shed blood, and to destroy souls, to
get dishonest gain.</hi>&mdash;The ecclesiastics, <q>wolves in sheeps'
clothing</q> (Matt. 7:15), tear their prey, the Body members
of Christ, shed blood in persecution, and destroy spiritual
life&mdash;all to acquire money to perpetuate their infamous,
paganized religion.&mdash;Micah 2:9-11.
</p>

<p>
22:28. <hi rend='sans'>And her prophets have daubed them with untempered
mortar, seeing vanity, and divining lies unto them,
saying, Thus saith the Lord God, when the Lord hath not
spoken.</hi>&mdash;The preachers of Protestantism have whitewashed
the whole crowd of ecclesiastics, imagining empty
doctrines of Evolution and Higher Criticism, and lying to
the people by giving their own theories as God's Word.
</p>

<p>
22:29. <hi rend='sans'>The people of the land have used oppression, and
exercised robbery, and have vexed the poor and needy; yea,
they have oppressed the stranger wrongfully.</hi>&mdash;The laity
of both Romanism and Protestantism have oppressed the
poor in spirit, have robbed those needing God's help of
what comfort they had, and have wrongfully oppressed the
<q>pilgrims and strangers</q> (Heb. 11:13) among them.
</p>

<p>
22:30. <hi rend='sans'>And I sought for a man among them, that should
make up the hedge, and stand in the gap before Me for the
land, that I should not destroy it; but I found none.</hi>&mdash;God
promised not to destroy Sodom if there should be ten
righteous men in it; He will seek for even <hi rend='italic'>one</hi> who is
righteous in Christ's righteousness, in ecclesiasticism, to
make up the wall of her goat-fold, and stand in the gap,
that He should not destroy her; but He will find not one!
</p>

<p>
22:31. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore have I poured out Mine indignation
upon them; I have consumed them with the fire of My
wrath; their own way have I recompensed upon their
heads, saith the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;Therefore ecclesiasticism is
doomed to extinction.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='474'/><anchor id='Pg474'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 23&mdash;Two Apostate Church Systems</head>

<p>
23:1, 2. <hi rend='sans'>The Word of the Lord came again unto me,
saying, Son of man, there were two women, the daughters
of one mother.</hi>&mdash;Chapter 23 describes the church-state
unions of the Roman Catholic church, pictured as an unchaste
woman, Aholah, and of the Protestant church, her
unchaste sister, Aholibah, and the destruction of both in the
Time of Trouble by the nations with which they have made
unions.&mdash;Jer. 3:6-10.
</p>

<p>
23:3. <hi rend='sans'>And they committed whoredoms in Egypt; they
committed whoredoms in their youth: there were their
breasts pressed, and there they bruised the teats of their
virginity.</hi>&mdash;Both of these churches have always catered to
worldly ideas and people, and even in their youth were
guilty of unions of church with state.
</p>

<p>
23:4. <hi rend='sans'>And the names of them were Aholah the elder,
and Aholibah her sister: and they were Mine, and they
bare sons and daughters. Thus were their names; Samaria
is Aholah, and Jerusalem Aholibah.</hi>&mdash;Their names are
significant. Aholah means <q>her own tent.</q> God is not in
Romanist ecclesiasticism at all; it has its own tabernacle,
called (Acts 7:43) <q>the tabernacle of Moloch.</q> Satan
himself dwells in and actuates the Papal system. Aholibah
means <q>My tent is in her.</q> God's Tabernacle, the true
Church, has been among the Protestants chiefly. In this
picture, an unchaste Protestant ecclesiasticism is designated
<q>Jerusalem.</q> They both have sons&mdash;prominent ones&mdash;and
daughters&mdash;sectarian churches.
</p>

<p>
23:5. <hi rend='sans'>And Aholah played the harlot when she was Mine;
and she doted on her lovers, on the Assyrians her neighbors.</hi>&mdash;The
Romish church dates back to apostolic days,
when she was God's Church [Mine]; but she fell in love
with her neighbors, the rulers of that brutal age, and sought
temporal power.
</p>

<p>
23:6. <hi rend='sans'>Which were clothed with blue, captains and rulers,
all of them desirable young men, horsemen riding upon
horses.</hi>&mdash;The leaders and rulers in worldly affairs were
apparently faithful (clothed in blue, typical of faithfulness),
and seemed desirable and attractive to be associated
with. They were men of thought and men of action, riding
hobbies of vain philosophies.
</p>

<pb n='475'/><anchor id='Pg475'/>

<p>
23:7. <hi rend='sans'>Thus she committed her whoredoms with them,
with all them that were the chosen men of Assyria, and
with all on whom she doted: with all their idols she defiled
herself.</hi>&mdash;The Church associated with them for gain
of worldly power, set her affections on them, instead of on
things Above, and defiled herself with their pagan ideas.
</p>

<p>
23:8. <hi rend='sans'>Neither left she her whoredoms brought from
Egypt: for in her youth they lay with her, and they bruised
the breasts of her virginity, and poured their whoredom
upon her.</hi>&mdash;Nor did she give up her worldliness when she
took up oriental asceticism.
</p>

<p>
23:9, 10. <hi rend='sans'>Wherefore I have delivered her into the hand
of her lovers, into the hand of the Assyrians, upon whom
she doted. These discovered her nakedness: they took
her sons and her daughters, and slew her with the sword:
and she became famous among women; for they had executed
judgment upon her.</hi>&mdash;The rulers discovered the
naked, unprotected condition of Romanism; and by hundreds
of thousands poured in from the East, literal Tartars,
Vandals, Huns and Turks, and the pagan ideas from
the same sources, and slew the sons and daughters of
Romanism with the literal sword, as well as her children
spiritually. Among the Pagan religions (women) Romanist
<q>Christianity</q> became a name and a byword; for the invaders
had executed the judgment of God upon her.
</p>

<p>
23:11. <hi rend='sans'>And when her sister Aholibah saw this, she was
more corrupt in her inordinate love than she, and in her
whoredoms more than her sister in her whoredoms.</hi>&mdash;Protestantism
began in comparative purity, but later on
developed an inordinate love for temporal power. Even
more than Papacy she tried in every nation to <q>run things.</q>
</p>

<p>
23:12. <hi rend='sans'>She doted upon the Assyrians her neighbours,
captains and rulers clothed most gorgeously, horsemen
riding upon horses, all of them desirable young men.</hi>&mdash;She,
too, set her affections on popularity with earth's rulers,
great and small, conservative, radical and revolutionary.
</p>

<p>
23:13-17. <hi rend='sans'>Then I saw that she was defiled, that they
took both one way. And that she increased her whoredoms:
for when she saw men portrayed upon the wall,
the images of the Chaldeans portrayed with vermilion,
girded with girdles upon their loins, exceeding in dyed
attire upon their heads, all of them princes to look to,
after the manner of the Babylonians of Chaldea, the land
of their nativity: and as soon as she saw them with her
eyes, she doted upon them, and sent messengers unto them
<pb n='476'/><anchor id='Pg476'/>
into Chaldea. And the Babylonians came to her into the
bed of love, and they defiled her with their whoredom,
and she was polluted with them, and her mind was alienated
from them.</hi>&mdash;God saw that both churches, Romish
and Protestant, were of like tendency to church-state
union, especially Protestantism; for she never saw or
heard of a great worldly man, even down to the local
leaders of the smallest rural communities, that she did
not desire their influence and help&mdash;particularly their
money&mdash;and systematically invited them to connect themselves
with a church, quite regardless of whether or not
they remained worldly. So much did the prominent people
in every place crowd into the Protestant churches and try
to <q>boss</q> things, that the rank and file even of ecclesiastics
and of the less prominent supporters of ecclesiasticism
grew sick of them.
</p>

<p>
23:18. <hi rend='sans'>So she discovered her whoredoms, and discovered
her nakedness: then My mind was alienated from her, like
as My mind was alienated from her sister.</hi>&mdash;The newspaper
writers, Socialists, anarchists and muck-rakers, exposed
the worldliness of the Protestant churches; and
God Himself, from 1878 on, has been alienated from them.
</p>

<p>
23:19-21. <hi rend='sans'>Yet she multiplied her whoredoms, in calling
to remembrance the days of her youth, wherein she had
played the harlot in the land of Egypt. For she doted
upon their paramours, whose flesh is as the flesh of asses,
and whose issue is like the issue of horses. Thus thou
calledst to remembrance the lewdness of thy youth, in
bruising thy teats by the Egyptians for the paps of thy
youth.</hi>&mdash;Protestant ecclesiasticism multiplied her worldly
alliances; and the prominent and wealthy, <q>of the earth,
earthy,</q> filled the churches with tares, worldlings, desirous
of profiting by association with prominent people.
</p>

<p>
23:22. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore, O Aholibah, thus saith the Lord God:
Behold, I will raise up thy lovers against thee, from whom
thy mind is alienated, and I will bring them against thee
on every side.</hi>&mdash;Therefore, O Protestantism, thus saith the
Lord Jehovah: I will raise up, in warfare and revolution,
the worldly people in you, of whom you are already sick,
and bring them against you on every side.
</p>

<p>
23:23. <hi rend='sans'>The Babylonians, and all the Chaldeans, Pekod,
and Shoa, and Koa, and all the Assyrians with them; all
of them desirable young men, captains and rulers, great
lords and renowned, all of them riding upon horses.</hi>&mdash;The
worldly, the worldly-wise (Chaldeans), the officers (Pekod),
princes (Shoa), and rulers (Koa), and all the discontented
and anarchistic with them shall come against you, riding
hobbies destructive to you.
</p>

<pb n='477'/><anchor id='Pg477'/>

<p>
23:24. <hi rend='sans'>And they shall come against thee with chariots,
wagons, and wheels, and with an assembly of people,
which shall set against thee buckler and shield and helmet
round about: and I will set judgment before them, and
they shall judge thee according to their judgments.</hi>&mdash;They
shall war against thy welfare with organizations of
their own (chariots), with leaders (riders, mistranslated
wagons), with a systematic plan of operation (wheels),
and with a great following of revolutionists; and they shall
condemn thee by their own perverted ideas of justice.
</p>

<p>
23:25. <hi rend='sans'>And I will set My jealousy against thee, and they
shall deal furiously with thee: they shall take away thy
nose and thine ears; and thy remnant shall fall by the
sword; they shall take thy sons and thy daughters; and
thy residue shall be devoured by the fire.</hi>&mdash;Unknown to
Protestantism, God's jealousy has been excited by her
worldliness; and He will permit the masses to deal with
her in fury; they will destroy her spirituality, taking away
her ability to discern spiritual things (nose), and to hear
(ear) the Word of God. They will force Protestantism's
sons and daughters into service in war and revolution; and
the remnant will be destroyed in the ensuing anarchy.
</p>

<p>
23:26. <hi rend='sans'>They shall also strip thee out of thy clothes,
and take away thy fair jewels.</hi>&mdash;Protestantism shall be
stripped of her robes of self-righteousness and of her imitation
jewels&mdash;those not truly Christianized; for they will
cast off all pretense of religion.
</p>

<p>
23:27. <hi rend='sans'>Thus will I make thy lewdness to cease from
thee, and thy whoredom brought from the land of Egypt:
so that thou shalt not lift up thine eyes unto them, nor
remember Egypt any more.</hi>&mdash;Being no longer attractive or
useful to the ruling powers, she will perforce cease her
advances toward the grasping of worldly power.
</p>

<p>
23:28. <hi rend='sans'>For thus saith the Lord God; Behold, I will deliver
thee into the hand of them whom thou hatest, into
the hand of them from whom thy mind is alienated.</hi>&mdash;All
law-abiding people, and especially Protestant ecclesiasticism,
hate and fear the lawless forces destructive of
society; but into the cruel hands of such shall they be delivered.
</p>

<p>
23:29. <hi rend='sans'>And they shall deal with thee hatefully, and
shall take away all thy labour, and shall leave thee naked
and bare; and the nakedness of thy whoredoms shall be
discovered, both thy lewdness and thy whoredoms.</hi>&mdash;These
evil forces shall deal hatefully with Protestantism, take
away all the results of her work, and strip her completely,
because of the ultimate evils wrought by union of church
and state.
</p>

<pb n='478'/><anchor id='Pg478'/>

<p>
23:30. <hi rend='sans'>I will do these things unto thee, because thou
hast gone a whoring after the heathen, and because thou
art polluted with their idols.</hi>&mdash;God will do this because
Protestantism has sought and made church-state unions,
and has been polluted with worldly ideas and practices.
</p>

<p>
23:31. <hi rend='sans'>Thou hast walked in the way of thy sister;
therefore, will I give her cup into thine hand.</hi>&mdash;She has
walked in the way of Papacy; therefore will God give to
her also Papacy's cup of tribulation.&mdash;Jer. 25:15.
</p>

<p>
23:32. <hi rend='sans'>Thus saith the Lord God: Thou shalt drink of
thy sister's cup deep and large; thou shalt be laughed to
scorn and had in derision; it containeth much.</hi>&mdash;Protestantism
shall drink deep and large the measure of Romanism's
cup of trouble; it contains much. As a result of wars
and devastation brought on by worldliness, in the face of
boasted godliness, Protestantism shall be scorned and
derided by the whole world.&mdash;Rev. 9.
</p>

<p>
23:33. <hi rend='sans'>Thou shalt be filled with drunkenness and sorrow,
with the cup of astonishment and desolation, with the
cup of thy sister Samaria.</hi>&mdash;Protestantism shall be intoxicated
with the war spirit (Jer. 13:13), and later stupefied
with amazement at the ruinous results of her own course,
ending in the same cup of trouble, utter ruin, as confronts
her sister-church, Catholicism.
</p>

<p>
23:34. <hi rend='sans'>Thou Shalt even drink it and suck it out, and thou
shalt break the sherds thereof, and pluck off thine own
breasts: for I have spoken it, saith the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;Protestantism
shall drain the cup of desolation and sorrow and
shall suck out the very dregs. (Isa. 30:14.) It shall be
broken up in anarchy, and shall lose all the features that
made it attractive to this world's governments for purposes
of union of church and state.
</p>

<p>
23:35. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore thus saith the Lord God: Because
thou hast forgotten Me, and cast Me behind thy back,
therefore bear thou also thy lewdness and thy whoredoms.</hi>&mdash;Because
she has forgotten the Lord and cast Him out
of her mind, Protestantism shall endure unaided by Him
the results of her own evil course.
</p>

<p>
23:36. <hi rend='sans'>The Lord said moreover unto me: Son of man,
wilt thou judge Aholah and Ahollbah? yes, declare unto
them their abominations.</hi>&mdash;In Verses 36 to 49 Romanism
and Protestantism are together jointly condemned.
</p>

<p>
23:37. <hi rend='sans'>That they have committed adultery, and blood is
in their hands, and with their Idols have they committed
adultery, and have also caused their sons, whom they bare
unto me, to pass for them through the fire, to devour
them.</hi>&mdash;They have both effected church-state unions. They
have blood guilt, for wars, and for causing the spiritual
<pb n='479'/><anchor id='Pg479'/>
death of multitudes. They have given their hearts to
idol doctrines. They have caused God's children to endure
fiery troubles, and have scorched, scarred and burned their
religious lives with the eternal torment theory.
</p>

<p>
23:38. <hi rend='sans'>Moreover this they have done unto Me; they
have defiled My Sanctuary In the same day, and have profaned
My sabbaths.</hi>&mdash;They have defiled God's Sanctuary,
the Church, with soul-destroying doctrines in the same
Day, the Gospel Age. They have derided the Millennium,
and have substituted works for the rest of faith, as the
basis of justification before God.
</p>

<p>
23:39. <hi rend='sans'>For when they had slain their children to their
idols, then they came the same day Into My Sanctuary to
profane it; and lo, thus have they done in the midst of
Mine house.</hi>&mdash;They would slay their people in war and the
same day go to worship God, even in the midst of God's
Sanctuary, the Little Flock of the true Church.
</p>

<p>
23:40. <hi rend='sans'>And furthermore, that ye have sent for men to
come from far, unto whom a messenger was sent; and,
lo, they came; for whom thou didst wash thyself, paintedst
thy eyes, and deckedst thyself with ornaments.</hi>&mdash;They
sought for union with and sent preachers to prominent
men, at heart in a condition far from God; for them they
<q>whitewashed</q> themselves, made their wisdom (eyes) attractive
with worldly philosophies, and adorned themselves
with the imitation jewels of courtesy, tact and politeness.
</p>

<p>
23:41. <hi rend='sans'>And satest upon a stately bed, and a table prepared
before it, whereupon thou hast set Mine Incense and
Mine oil.</hi>&mdash;They took their seat upon a stately creed-bed,
adapted to worldly, regal purposes, with a table of religious
food, teachings, philosophies, not of God, where they gave
their hearts' best endeavor and prostituted what measure
of the Holy Spirit they had to worldly ends.
</p>

<p>
23:42. <hi rend='sans'>And a voice of a multitude being at ease was
with her; and with the men of the common sort were
brought Sabeans from the wilderness, which put bracelets
upon their hands, and beautiful crowns upon their heads.</hi>&mdash;With
the ecclesiasticism of Papacy and Protestantism was
the voice of a multitude of worldly church members, thoroughly
at ease in apostate Zion. (Amos 6:1.) Among
the church members were men of the blackest character
(Sabeans, descendants of Ham, disfavored of God), who
belonged outside the pale of religion, who adorned themselves
with seeming character jewels and crowns of
inherent immortality, not of God, but of Plato.
</p>

<pb n='480'/><anchor id='Pg480'/>

<p>
23:43. <hi rend='sans'>Then said I unto her that was old in adulteries,
Will they now commit whoredoms with her, and she with
them?</hi>&mdash;It seemed impossible that the churches should
unite with such evil men, to gain influence and power.
</p>

<p>
23:44. <hi rend='sans'>Yet they went in unto her, as they go in unto a
woman that playeth the harlot: so went they in unto
Aholah and unto Aholibah, the lewd women.</hi>&mdash;Nevertheless,
both Romish and Protestant ecclesiasticism did so.
</p>

<p>
23:45. <hi rend='sans'>And the righteous men, they shall judge them
after the manner of adulteresses, and after the manner of
women that shed blood; because they are adulteresses, and
blood is in their hands.</hi>&mdash;But men with a sense of decency,
justice and the fitness of things will condemn both
churches, Romish and Protestant, as adulteresses were
judged among the Hebrews&mdash;stone them to death with
hard facts, and by the ravages of revolution and anarchy.
</p>

<p>
23:46. <hi rend='sans'>For thus saith the Lord God, I will bring up a
company upon them, and will give them to be removed
and spoiled.</hi>&mdash;God will bring up against them a great rabble
of people with a keen sense of outraged justice&mdash;Socialists,
trades-union men, laborites, social democrats, nihilists
and anarchists. Also a multitude of God's children, begotten
of the Holy Spirit, will rise up against these apostacies.
</p>

<p>
23:47. <hi rend='sans'>And the company shall stone them with stones,
and dispatch them with their swords; they shall slay their
sons and their daughters, and burn up their houses with
fire.</hi>&mdash;This multitude will down ecclesiasticism with hard
facts, and destroy her with material weapons and with
the Sword of the Spirit, the Word of God. The anarchists
will literally slay church members by millions; and the
sons of God will by His Holy Word cause them to cease
their pretense of being Christians.
</p>

<p>
23:48. <hi rend='sans'>Thus will I cause lewdness to cease out of the
land, that all women may be taught not to do after your
lewdness.</hi>&mdash;Thus will the Lord cause the desire for the
union of churches with worldly power to cease out of
human society, that all religious bodies may learn forever
to avoid this abominable practice.
</p>

<p>
23:49. <hi rend='sans'>And they shall recompense your lewdness upon
you, and ye shall bear the sins of your idols: and ye shall
know that I am the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;Thus shall ecclesiasticism's
faithless apostasy be recompensed upon her when she
suffers the results of the sinfulness of loving other mighty
ones than Jehovah, and thus shall she learn the supremacy
of God in the affairs of men.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='481'/><anchor id='Pg481'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 24&mdash;The Boiling Caldron</head>

<p>
24:1, 2. <hi rend='sans'>Again in the ninth year, in the tenth month, in
the tenth day of the month, the word of the Lord came
unto me, saying, Son of man, write thee the name of the
day, even of this same day: the king of Babylon set himself
against Jerusalem this same day.</hi>&mdash;It was in the fall
of 1916&mdash;a year and seven months before the city was
to be smitten in the spring of 1918&mdash;that the forces of laborism,
revolution and anarchy, began to assert themselves
against the established order of things in Christendom&mdash;the
siege of the city began.
</p>

<p>
24:3. <hi rend='sans'>And utter a parable unto the rebellious house, and
say unto them, Thus saith the Lord God: Set on a pot,
set it on, and also pour water into it.</hi>&mdash;Jerusalem is likened
to a boiling caldron from which meat is taken; then it is
set empty on the fire and the rust burned out. Ezekiel's
wife dies; but he suppresses his feelings, and, after the
ordinance for a priest, makes no mourning for the dead&mdash;a
picture of the dumb sorrow of the Hebrews on the destruction
of Jerusalem. The prophecy of this chapter was
uttered on the same day that the king of Babylon,
Nebuchadnezzar, <q>came, he and all his host, and pitched
against it; and they built forts against it round about; and
the city was besieged unto the eleventh year of king
Zedekiah.</q> (2 Kings 25:1, 2.) Its antitype is that on or
about November 1, 1916, the date of Pastor Russell's death,
ecclesiasticism began to enter upon its life-and-death
struggle, materially, with the forces of laborism and anarchy,
and religiously with the consecrated children of
God, whose work from then on was increasingly to bear
witness to the apostasy and imminent destruction of
churchianity. Ecclesiasticism, rebellious against her God,
is as an organization, like a caldron of brass (copper),
typing that many of its members believe the Word of God.
It is set amid the fiery troubles of revolution and anarchy.
There is water in it, symbolic of what Truth there is in
ecclesiasticism.&mdash;Jer. 1:13.
</p>

<p>
24:4. <hi rend='sans'>Gather the pieces thereof into it, even every good
piece, the thigh, and the shoulders: fill it with the choice
bones.</hi>&mdash;In it are gathered the great and prominent (good
pieces), and also the strong ones (bones) of her flock.
</p>

<pb n='482'/><anchor id='Pg482'/>

<p>
24:5. <hi rend='sans'>Take the choice of the flock, and burn also the
bones under it, and make it boil well, and let them seethe
the bones of it therein.</hi>&mdash;The social elements will grow hot
in the Time of Trouble until the truths in ecclesiasticism
make it exceedingly warm for her members. Then the
heated, excited, troublous condition will be transmitted,
and as the truths warm up, will get all the church members
into exceedingly hot water, even the strongest ones.
</p>

<p>
24:6. <hi rend='sans'>Wherefore thus saith the Lord God: Woe to the
bloody city, to the plot whose scum is therein, and whose
scum is not gone out of it! bring it out piece by piece; let
no lot fall upon it.</hi>&mdash;Woe to Christendom, ecclesiasticism,
bloody in the blood of soldiers, peasants, workingmen,
martyrs and saints, by the millions, and blood guilty for
the spiritual hopes of millions, extinguished by her false
doctrines. Her rust (R. V.) is in her. Bring out her leading
members, one by one, indiscriminately, into captivity
to the forces of revolution.
</p>

<p>
24:7. <hi rend='sans'>For her blood is in the midst of her; she set it
upon the top of a rock; the poured it not upon the ground,
to cover it with dust;</hi>&mdash;Her infamy of blood is in her very
substance. She has not been able to conceal it, but it is
exposed to full view in <q>the top of her rock,</q> in the kings
and the kaisers, her heads in church-state union.
</p>

<p>
24:8. <hi rend='sans'>That it might cause fury to come up to take vengeance;
I have set her blood upon the top of a rock, that
it should not be covered.</hi>&mdash;The fury of a revolted soldiery
and populace will rise up against the heads of the governments,
who are also heads of the churches, to take vengeance
upon ecclesiasticism's sins.
</p>

<p>
24:9. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore thus saith the Lord God; Woe to the
bloody city! I will even make the pile for fire great.</hi>&mdash;Innumerable
will be the opponents of churchianity, and
blazing hot their wrath.
</p>

<p>
24:10. <hi rend='sans'>Heap on the wood, kindle the fire, consume the
flesh, and spice it well, and let the bones be burned.</hi>&mdash;Heap
up the fires of discontent and anarchy, consume the tares
in Christendom, as tares. Thicken the broth (R. V.), boil
it down until the very bones, the strong church members,
cease to be such.
</p>

<p>
24:11. <hi rend='sans'>Then set it empty upon the coals thereof, that
the brass of it may be hot, and may burn, and that the
filthiness of it may be molten in it, that the scum of it may
be consumed.</hi>&mdash;Then ecclesiasticism, the clergy class, with
emptied pews, shall sit amid the fiery trouble and be consumed,
that their corruption may be done away.
</p>

<p>
24:12. <hi rend='sans'>She hath wearied herself with lies, and her great
scum went not forth out of her: her scum shall be in the
<pb n='483'/><anchor id='Pg483'/>
fire.</hi>&mdash;She has wearied even the preachers with the dishonesty
of preaching things not believed in, and yet they
did not cast out her doctrinal corruption, which shall be
fuel for the fire of anarchy.
</p>

<p>
24:13. <hi rend='sans'>In thy filthiness is lewdness: because I have
purged thee, and thou wast not purged, thou shalt not be
purged from thy filthiness any more, till I have caused My
fury to rest upon thee.</hi>&mdash;Her corruption was in her desire
to become prominent and powerful through the power of
earth's great ones. God purged her of these things to
some extent through godly preachers and reformers; but
she was not purged in heart and quickly reverted to the
things Divinely proscribed. Since 1878 God has made no
further attempt to reform ecclesiasticism; and she shall
not be purged, but the fury of God's jealousy shall rest
upon her.
</p>

<p>
24:14. <hi rend='sans'>I the Lord have spoken it; it shall come to pass,
and I will do it; I will not go back, neither will I spare,
neither will I repent; according to thy ways, and according
to thy doings, shall they judge thee, saith the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;God
Himself has spoken this and will do it. He will not
go back, neither spare, nor change His Plan; but in just
recompense for her doings shall the Socialists and anarchists
condemn her.
</p>

<p>
24:15, 16. <hi rend='sans'>Also the word of the Lord came unto me, saying,
Son of man, behold, I take away from thee the desire
of thine eyes with a stroke: yet neither shalt thou mourn
nor weep, neither shall thy tears run down.</hi>&mdash;God took
away from Pastor Russell the desire of his eyes, her whom
he loved, with a stroke, or <q>plague</q> of spiritual error,
which completely separated them. By the Mosaic ordinance
a priest on the death of father, mother, or wife, was
to show no special sign of grief, but was to remain in the
Tabernacle, or Temple, and attend as usual to the service
of God. Pastor Russell, as a member of the great High
Priest and as Christ's representative in the world, the sole
steward of the <q>meat in due season,</q> suffered deeply, but
shed no tears.
</p>

<p>
24:17. <hi rend='sans'>Forbear to cry, make no mourning for the dead,
bind the tire of thine head upon thee, and put on thy shoes
upon thy feet, and cover not thy lips, and eat not the bread
of men.</hi>&mdash;Rather, he made no mourning for her that was
to him as dead, but continued in the work of the sacrificing
priesthood. He was sustained in his affliction, not by
human aid, but by the consolations of his Father's Word.
</p>

<pb n='484'/><anchor id='Pg484'/>

<p>
24:18. <hi rend='sans'>So I spake unto the people in the morning: and
at even my wife died; and I did in the morning as I was
commanded.</hi>&mdash;He continued his addresses and writings to
the Lord's people; his wife became to him as one dead:
and he continued uninterruptedly in the work of the ministry.
</p>

<p>
24:19. <hi rend='sans'>And the people said unto me, Wilt thou not tell
us what these things are to us, that thou doest so?</hi>&mdash;Why
was Pastor Russell caused by his Father to endure the
fiery trials and ecclesiastical falsehoods in connection with
this incident of his life?
</p>

<p>
24:20, 21. <hi rend='sans'>Then I answered them, The word of the Lord
came unto me, saying, Speak unto the house of Israel,
Thus saith the Lord God; Behold, I will profane My Sanctuary,
the excellency of your strength, the desire of your
eyes, and that which your soul pitieth; and your sons and
your daughters whom ye have left shall fall by the sword.</hi>&mdash;God
gives the reason. It was as a picture or parable of
what is to happen to Christendom. Until 1878 the nominal
church had been in a sense God's sanctuary or Temple;
but He was from then on, culminating in 1918, to remove it
with a stroke or plague of erroneous doctrines and deeds
Divinely permitted. The Church was the strength of Christendom,
that about which its life centered, and around
which its institutions were built. It was the desire of the
eyes of the people, that which all Christians loved. Nevertheless,
God was to make manifest the profanation which
ecclesiasticism had made of the Christian Church, and to
cause the church organizations to become to Him as one
dead, an unclean thing, not to be touched, or mourned.
And the <q>children of the church</q> shall perish by the
sword of war, revolution and anarchy, and by the Sword
of the Spirit be made to see that they have lost their hope
of life on the spirit plane&mdash;that <q>the door is shut.</q>
</p>

<p>
24:22. <hi rend='sans'>And ye shall do as I have done: ye shall not
cover your lips, nor eat the bread of men.</hi>&mdash;So universal
and dreadful will be the troubles that the dead will literally
lie unburied and unwept. There can be no mourning
for the dead in a period when the living are overwhelmed
by troubles worse than death.
</p>

<p>
24:23. <hi rend='sans'>And your tires shall be upon your heads: and
your shoes upon your feet: ye shall not mourn nor weep;
but ye shall pine away for your iniquities, and mourn one
toward another.</hi>&mdash;The mourning will be an inner sorrow
of a people stupefied by terrible experiences, who pine
<pb n='485'/><anchor id='Pg485'/>
away and without outward expression sink together into
the fellowship of helpless grief.
</p>

<p>
24:24. <hi rend='sans'>Thus Ezekiel is unto you a sign: according to all
that he hath done shall ye do: and when this cometh, ye
shall know that I am the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;Thus the silent sorrow
at Pastor Russell's heart was to be a sign to Christendom.
The sorrowful experiences of Pastor Russell in this
connection shall later on be those of all Christendom;
<q>and when this cometh</q> they shall know that Jehovah God
is supreme, and back of all the judgments of the trouble
time.
</p>

<p>
24:25, 26. <hi rend='sans'>Also, thou son of man, shall it not be in the
day when I take from them their strength, the joy
of their glory, the desire of their eyes, and that whereupon
they set their minds, their sons and their daughters. That
he that escapeth in that day shall come unto thee, to cause
thee to hear it with thine ears?</hi>&mdash;Also, in the year 1918,
when God destroys the churches wholesale and the church
members by millions, it shall be that any that escape shall
come to the works of Pastor Russell to learn the meaning
of the downfall of <q>Christianity.</q>
</p>

<p>
24:27. <hi rend='sans'>In that day shall thy mouth be opened to him
which is escaped, and thou shalt speak, and be no more
dumb: and thou shalt be a sign unto them; and they shall
know that I am the Lord.</hi>&mdash;Pastor Russell's voice has been
stilled in death; and his voice is, comparatively speaking,
dumb to what it will be. In the time of revolution and
anarchy he shall speak, and be no more dumb to those
that escape the destruction of that day. Pastor Russell
shall <q>be a sign unto them,</q> shall tell them the truth about
the Divine appointment of the trouble, as they consult his
books, scattered to the number of ten million throughout
Christendom. His words shall be a sign of hope unto
them, enabling them to see the bright side of the cloud
and to look forward with anticipation to the glorious
Kingdom of God to be established. Then <q>they shall know
the Lord.</q>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>Build thee more stately mansions, O my soul,</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 8'>As the swift seasons roll!</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 8'>Leave thy low vaulted past!</l>
<l>Let each new temple, nobler than the last,</l>
<l>Shut thee from heaven with a dome more vast,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 8'>Till thou at length art free,</l>
<l><q rend='post'>Leaving thine outgrown shell by life's unresting sea.</q></l>
</lg>
</quote>

</div>

<pb n='486'/><anchor id='Pg486'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 25&mdash;Recompense Upon The Tares</head>

<p>
25:1, 2. <hi rend='sans'>The word of the Lord came again unto me, saying,
Son of man, set thy face against the Ammonites, and
prophesy against them.</hi>&mdash;Chapter 25 foretells that after
the fall of apostate ecclesiasticism in revolution, in 1918,
the end of the various discordant non-Christian elements
of Christendom, hostile to true Christianity, which will
seek to profit by her fall, will come. The Ammonites
(25:1-7) and the Moabites (25:8-11), both children of Lot&mdash;who
was himself a type of the Great Company class&mdash;are
a type of a class brought into being by their father, the
Great Company class (Lot), while he was in a state of
drunken stupor from mixed doctrines, through Lot's daughters,
type of the worldly churches of the Great Company.
The Edomites, descendants of Esau, represent a class who
sell their birthright to sonship of God for a mess of pottage,
worldly advantage (25:12-14); and the Philistines, a
people who migrated from Egypt, and aggressively preyed
upon the Jews, type of a class of aggressive, middle-course,
professing Christians who prey upon true Christians. The
message begins with words against the Ammonites, types
of those believing worldlings who were brought into the
churches by the more or less faithless Great Company,
and who in an aggressive and predatory fashion as Jesuits,
persecuting Romish priests, and Protestant clergy and
their kind persecuted the true Christians. The Ammonites
are described as <q>fierce marauders, crafty, cruel, predatory.</q>
The Ammonites worshipped Baal, under the name
Chemosh, the god of fire and of fornication, type of the
eternal-torment-purgatory god, the encourager of the spiritual
adultery of church-state union.
</p>

<p>
25:3. <hi rend='sans'>And say unto the Ammonites, Hear the word of the
Lord God; Thus saith the Lord God; Because thou saidst,
Aha, against My Sanctuary, when it was profaned; and
against the land of Israel, when it was desolate; and
against the house of Judah, when they went into captivity.</hi>&mdash;When
God's true Church shall be persecuted in the
<pb n='487'/><anchor id='Pg487'/>
world-war and revolution, and true Christian faith shall
be desolated, and the multitude of those that praise God
(Judah, praise) shall go into captivity to the infidel revolutionists,
the persecuting, world-loving church members
(Ammonites) will he glad of it.
</p>

<p>
26:4. <hi rend='sans'>Behold, therefore I will deliver thee to the men of
the east for a possession, and they shall set their palaces
in thee, and make their dwellings in thee: they shall eat
thy fruit, and they shall drink thy milk.</hi>&mdash;God will deliver
this class unto the anarchists, to possess them, and make
themselves at home with their property, and to make
away with their doctrines (milk).
</p>

<p>
25:5. <hi rend='sans'>And I will make Rabbah a stable for camels, and
the Ammonites a couching place for flocks: and ye shall
know that I am the Lord.</hi>&mdash;And I will make the lordly
clergy class (Rabbah, great) waste and abandoned.
</p>

<p>
25:6. <hi rend='sans'>For thus saith the Lord God; Because thou hast
clapped thine hands, and stamped with the feet, and rejoiced
in heart with all thy despite against the land of
Israel.</hi>&mdash;Because they shall rejoice greatly, in their despite
against Christianity.
</p>

<p>
25:7. <hi rend='sans'>Behold, therefore I will stretch out Mine hand
upon thee, and will deliver thee for a spoil to the heathen:
and I will cut thee off from the people, and I will cause
thee to perish out of the countries: I will destroy thee;
and thou shalt know that I am the Lord.</hi>&mdash;Therefore God
will stretch out His hand against them, and deliver them
to be despoiled by the infidel anarchists in their midst.
He will cut them off as a class, cause them to cease and
destroy them, and they shall know that He is God.
</p>

<p>
25:8. <hi rend='sans'>Thus saith the Lord God: Because that Moab and
Seir do say, Behold, the house of Judah is like unto all the
heathen.</hi>&mdash;The Moabites (<q>Seir</q> should be omitted) were
the civilized part of the descendants of Lot, born of incest,
of a drunken father, Lot, and worshippers of Baal, while
acknowledging Jehovah. They typed a church membership
begotten by the mixture of truth and error, by the
Great Company class, through their world-loving churches
(daughters of Lot), and worshipping the eternal-torment
God, imagining him to be Jehovah, and practicing the
spiritual harlotry of union of church and state. Moab was
<q>a nation high spirited, wealthy, populous, civilized, and
of wide reputation and popularity.</q> They type a like class.
</p>

<p>
25:9. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore, behold, I will open the side of Moab
from the cities, from his cities which are on his frontiers,
the glory of the country, Beth-jeshi-moth, Baal-meon, and
Kiriathaim.</hi>&mdash;God will cause this class to be attacked in the
anarchy (Beth-jeshimoth, place of desolation), on two
<pb n='488'/><anchor id='Pg488'/>
grounds, their apostate clergy (Baalmeon, lord of the habitation)
and church-state system (Kiriathaim, double city).
</p>

<p>
25:10. <hi rend='sans'>Unto the men of the east with the Ammonites,
and will give them in possession, that the Ammonites may
not be remembered among the nations.</hi>&mdash;The anarchists
will also overcome the aggressive class (Ammonites).
</p>

<p>
25:11, 12. <hi rend='sans'>And I will execute judgments upon Moab; and
they shall know that I am the Lord. Thus saith the Lord
God; Because that Edom hath dealt against the house of
Judah by taking vengeance, and hath greatly offended, and
revenged himself upon them.</hi>&mdash;The professedly Christian
<q>Edomites</q> (D. 14-19)&mdash;nominally believers in God (descendants
of Abraham), but worshipping a variety of gods of
power, wealth, and worldliness, especially the eternal-torment
God&mdash;(Josephus says the Edomites worshipped Cese,
the destroyer)&mdash;will help greatly in pulling down Christianity.
</p>

<p>
25:13. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore thus saith the Lord God; I will also
stretch out Mine hand upon Edom, and will cut off man
and beast from it; and I will make it desolate from Teman;
and they of Dedan shall fall by the sword.</hi>&mdash;God will
stretch His hand against this class (Edom-Idumea) and
from end to end they shall fall by the weapons of destruction,
and by the Sword of the Spirit.&mdash;Isa. 34:5, 6; Jer.
49:7-17.
</p>

<p>
25:14. <hi rend='sans'>And I will lay My vengeance upon Edom by the
hand of My people Israel: and they shall do in Edom
according to Mine anger and according to My fury; and
they shall know My vengeance, saith the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;The
Truth people shall declare what God will do to this class
in His furious anger.&mdash;Isa. 15:1-9; Jer. 48:1-47.
</p>

<p>
25:15. <hi rend='sans'>Thus saith the Lord God; Because the Philistines
have dealt by revenge, and have taken vengeance with a
despiteful heart, to destroy it for the old hatred.</hi>&mdash;The
worldly professing Christians (Philistines, emigrants from
Egypt) persecute God's true people, and shall in the revolution
despitefully aid in destroying Christianity.&mdash;Joel 3:4.
</p>

<p>
25:16, 17. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore thus saith the Lord God; Behold, I
will stretch out Mine hand upon the Philistines, and I will
cut off the Cherethim, and destroy the remnant of the sea
coast. And I will execute great vengeance upon them with
furious rebukes; and they shall know that I am the Lord,
when I shall lay My vengeance upon them.</hi>&mdash;God will,
through the anarchists, stretch out His hand against this
class, and will cut off those that carry out persecution and
death upon His people (Cherethim, executioners), and all
worldly professing Christians as such, including those that
border on anarchy (sea coast).
</p>

</div>

<pb n='489'/><anchor id='Pg489'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 26&mdash;Downfall Of Philosophy</head>

<p>
26:1. <hi rend='sans'>And it came to pass in the eleventh year, in the
first day of the month, that the word of the Lord came
unto me, saying.</hi>&mdash;Chapter 26 depicts ecclesiasticism in
the guise of an elaborate system of philosophy. The name
Tyrus signifies <q>Rock;</q> and human philosophy, particularly
Greek Platonic philosophy, is the real rock foundation
of ecclesiastical teachings. Any true ecclesiastic,
when driven by the Word of God from his untenable
errors, claims sanction for them by reference to the philosophy
of Plato and the inherent immortality of man, etc.
</p>

<p>
26:2. <hi rend='sans'>Son of man, because that Tyrus hath said against
Jerusalem, Aha, she is broken that was the gates of the
people; she is turned unto me; I shall be replenished, now
she is laid waste.</hi>&mdash;This system and its adherents will
manifest their essentially non-Christian nature when Christendom
(Jerusalem) falls at the hands of the revolutionists
in 1918. Philosophy, Higher Criticism, will rejoice that
ecclesiasticism, which claimed to be the gateway to God
for the people, is broken. They will imagine that the
adherents of a Christianity that has failed will turn to
philosophy, and that the adherents of philosophy will be
increased now that ecclesiasticism is desolated. Human
philosophy will seem to be the sole refuge of the people
of Christendom.
</p>

<p>
26:3. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore thus saith the Lord God; Behold, I am
against thee, O Tyrus, and will cause many nations to
come up against thee, as the sea causeth his waves to
come up.</hi>&mdash;Because Christendom has borne the name of
Christ and had the oracles of God, therefore God is against
philosophy and will cause the many nations of Christendom
to come up against established philosophy, as a sea
of anarchy, with the discontented masses attacking, wave
after wave, endlessly.
</p>

<p>
26:4. <hi rend='sans'>And they shall destroy the walls of Tyrus, and
break down her towers: I will also scrape her dust from
her, and make her like the top of a rock.</hi>&mdash;The anarchists
shall destroy the walls of defense, composed of the adherents
to human philosophy, and shall break down the
loftiest and strongest organizations, its towers of defense.
<pb n='490'/><anchor id='Pg490'/>
God will remove the last vestiges of human adherence to
Christendom's system of philosophy.
</p>

<p>
26:5. <hi rend='sans'>It shall be a place for the spreading of nets in the
midst of the sea: for I have spoken it, saith the Lord God:
and it shall become a spoil to the nations.</hi>&mdash;In the anarchy,
human philosophy shall be utterly abandoned&mdash;deprived of
all its former supporters, by whole nations of anarchists.
</p>

<p>
26:6. <hi rend='sans'>And her daughters which are in the field shall be
slain by the sword: and they shall know that I am the
Lord.</hi>&mdash;The religious organizations (daughters) founded on
philosophy, which are in the world (field), shall be wiped
out; and in the Kingdom their former adherents shall
come to know Jehovah as He is.
</p>

<p>
26:7. <hi rend='sans'>For thus saith the Lord God; Behold, I will bring
upon Tyrus Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, a king of
kings, from the north, with horses, and with chariots, and
with horsemen, and companies, and much people.</hi>&mdash;Jehovah
God declares that against human philosophy (Tyrus) and
its systems and adherents, He will array Satan&mdash;the king
of this evil world, ruler of mystic Babylon, <q>the gateway
to Bel,</q> to devil worship, king over the kings and other
children of disobedience. He shall be permitted to come
by God Himself (the North) (Jer. 1:14), with teachings
(horses) of anarchy, with institutions based upon such
teachings (chariots), with leaders and teachers riding
these hobbies (horsemen), with an organised following
(companies) and with many people following after anarchy
in unorganized mobs (much people).
</p>

<p>
26:8. <hi rend='sans'>He shall slay with the sword thy daughters in the
field: and he shall make a fort against thee, and cast a
mount against thee, and lift up the buckler against thee.</hi>&mdash;With
weapons of destruction (swords) anarchy shall seek
to destroy the philosophical churches and other religious
organizations (daughters) in the world (field) and shall
systematically besiege them.
</p>

<p>
26:9. <hi rend='sans'>And he shall set engines of war against thy walls
and with his axes he shall break down thy towers.</hi>&mdash;Anarchy
shall make war against their defenders (walls), and
with keen, strong, cutting arguments (axes), shall break
down philosophy's strongholds (towers).
</p>

<p>
26:10. <hi rend='sans'>By reason of the abundance of his horses their
dust shall cover thee: thy walls shall shake at the noise
of the horsemen, and of the wheels, and of the chariots,
when he shall enter into thy gates, as men enter into a
city wherein is made a breach.</hi>&mdash;Anarchistic teachings
(horses) without limit shall fill the air with confusion
(dust); philosophy's defenders (walls) shall fear and quake
at the tumult (noise) of the leaders and teachers of
<pb n='491'/><anchor id='Pg491'/>
anarchy (horsemen), and of their systematic plans
(wheels) of destruction, and of the anarchistic organizations
(chariots), when Anarchy shall pour its forces
through the great ones (gates) of Philosophy, for the great
ones will become channels (breaches) for the inpouring
teachings of anarchy.
</p>

<p>
26:11. <hi rend='sans'>With the hoofs of his horses shall be tread down
all thy streets: he shall slay thy people by the sword, and
thy strong garrisons shall go down to the ground.</hi>&mdash;With
the impact (hoofs) of doctrines (horses) of destruction,
anarchy shall beat down all the orderly ways (streets) of
philosophy. Anarchy shall destroy the adherents of philosophy
with weapons of destruction, and the learned and
mighty colleges and universities (garrisons) shall go down
in failure and ruin.
</p>

<p>
26:12. <hi rend='sans'>And they shall make a spoil of thy riches, and
make a prey of thy merchandise: and they shall break
down thy walls, and destroy thy pleasant houses: and they
shall lay thy stones and thy timber and thy dust in the
midst of the water.</hi>&mdash;And the anarchists shall spoil the
ideals (riches), and stop the teaching (merchandise) of
philosophy; they shall break down the defense of philosophy's
adherents (walls), and destroy the pleasing philosophical
organizations (pleasant houses). They shall engulf
the believers (stones) and supporters (timbers) in
the rising tide of anarchy.
</p>

<p>
26:13. <hi rend='sans'>And I will cause the noise of thy songs to cease;
and the sound of thy harps shall be no more heard.</hi>&mdash;And
God will cause the noise of philosophy's siren songs, her
falsely pleasant teachings (songs) to cease; and the utterance
of her melodious books (harps) shall be no more
heard forever.
</p>

<p>
26:14. <hi rend='sans'>And I will make thee like the top of a rock: thou
shalt be a place to spread nets upon; thou shalt be built
no more: for I the Lord have spoken it, saith the Lord
God.</hi>&mdash;Philosophy, falsely so-called, shall be utterly desolated,
and shall be built up no more forever; for Jehovah
God has spoken it.
</p>

<p>
26:15. <hi rend='sans'>Thus saith the Lord God to Tyrus; Shall not the
isles shake at the sound of thy fall, when the wounded cry,
when the slaughter is made in the midst of thee?</hi>&mdash;The
world will be full of revolutionary republics (isles), devoid
of Christian principles and following man-made ideas;
these republics shall be shaken to their foundations, when
anarchy begins its dread slaughter of men and of systems.
</p>

<p>
26:16. <hi rend='sans'>Then all the princes of the sea shall come down
from their thrones, and lay away their robes, and put off
their broidered garments: they shall clothe themselves
<pb n='492'/><anchor id='Pg492'/>
with trembling; they shall sit upon the ground, and shall
tremble at every moment, and be astonished at thee.</hi>&mdash;Then
shall the rude rulers of the revolutionary, half-anarchistic
republics lose their positions of power
(thrones), and lay aside their honors (robes), and discard
their works of revolution (broidered garments); they shall
be filled with dread and with trembling, and shall marvel
at the downfall of their socialistic and revolutionary
philosophies.
</p>

<p>
26:17. <hi rend='sans'>And they shall take up a lamentation for thee,
and say to thee, How art thou destroyed, that wast inhabited
of seafaring men, the renowned city, which wast strong
in the sea, she and her inhabitants, which cause their terror
to be on all that haunt it!</hi>&mdash;They shall lament; for the
great systems of human philosophy shall be destroyed,
where abode polished cosmopolitan men of the world (seafaring
men), the renowned system of thought which was
strong among all peoples (in the sea), even in the midst
of a world of restless, discontented masses.
</p>

<p>
26:18. <hi rend='sans'>Now shall the isles tremble in the day of thy
fall; yea, the isles that are in the sea shall be troubled at
thy departure.</hi>&mdash;Now shall the revolutionary republics
(isles) tremble in the year of philosophy's downfall; the
republics in the midst of the anarchistic peoples (sea)
shall be in trouble with the failure of the system of man-made
philosophy.
</p>

<p>
26:19. <hi rend='sans'>For thus saith the Lord God; When I shall make
thee a desolate city, like the cities that are not inhabited;
when I shall bring up the deep upon thee, and great waters
shall cover thee.</hi>&mdash;For God will utterly desolate philosophical
teachings; when He brings up the sea of anarchy upon
them, and engulfs them in the tidal wave.
</p>

<p>
26:20. <hi rend='sans'>When I shall bring thee down with them that
descend into the pit, with the people of old time, and shall
set thee in the low parts of the earth, in places desolate of
old, with them that go down to the pit, that thou be not
inhabited; and I shall set glory in the land of the living.</hi>&mdash;God
will bring human philosophy down to destruction,
without an adherent and in disgrace and reproach (into
the pit), in order that He may establish His glorious truth
in the Kingdom of resurrection and of life.
</p>

<p>
26:21. <hi rend='sans'>I will make thee a terror, and thou shalt be no
more: though thou be sought for, yet shalt thou never be
found again, saith the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;God will make human
philosophy a wasted, desolated thing (a terror); never
shall it exist any more; though men and devils should
seek to reestablish it, never shall it be found again, saith
Jehovah God.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='493'/><anchor id='Pg493'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 27&mdash;Philosophy's Utter Ruin</head>

<p>
27:1. <hi rend='sans'>The Word of the Lord came again unto me, saying.</hi>&mdash;In
Chapter 27 Christendom, regarded as an independent
system of pagan philosophy, is represented as a
gallant ship. Its component parts are represented symbolically
(27:4-7), as are its mariners and pilots (27:8-9).
In verses 9 to 25 the figure reverts to a mercantile city,
and the sources of its articles of trade. It is again pictured
as a ship, which is steered by its mariners into an
angry sea, and wrecked.&mdash;Verses 26 to 36.
</p>

<p>
27:2. <hi rend='sans'>Now, thou son of man, take up a lamentation for
Tyrus.</hi>&mdash;The man-made system of Pagan philosophy must
fall.
</p>

<p>
27:3. <hi rend='sans'>And say unto Tyrus, O thou that art situate at
the entry of the sea, which art a merchant of the people
for many isles, Thus saith the Lord God: O Tyrus, thou
hast said, I am of perfect beauty.</hi>&mdash;O Christendom, thou
that hast the entree to the ears of the peoples (sea), which
art a salesman (merchant) of philosophical doctrines for
the people of many revolutionary republics, thus says the
Lord God: O Christendom, ecclesiasticism, thou hast regarded
thy pagan philosophies as perfect, faultless and
beautiful.
</p>

<p>
27:4. <hi rend='sans'>Thy borders are in the midst of the seas, thy
builders have perfected thy beauty.</hi>&mdash;Thou, as an independent
pagan religious organization or system, belongest
among the disobedient children (sea) of the world. Thy
philosophers, doctors of divinity, professors and writers,
have perfected thy seemingly beautiful philosophy.
</p>

<p>
27:5. <hi rend='sans'>They have made all thy ship boards of fir trees of
Senir; they have taken cedars from Lebanon to make
masts for thee.</hi>&mdash;They have made as thy fundamental supporters
(boards) believers in everlasting human life (firs,
evergreen trees), in high stations in society (Mount Senir,
or Hermon, <q>pointed rock</q> was in Benjamin, one of the
Hebrew tribes, and type of the Great Company). They
have taken as the support (masts) of thy seeming righteousness
(linen sails) earth's greatest men and the rulers,
believers in inherent immortality (cedars), picturing them
as from the loftiest, purest sources. (Lebanon, a great
mountain range, means <q>white, snowy.</q>).
</p>

<pb n='494'/><anchor id='Pg494'/>

<p>
27:6. <hi rend='sans'>Of the oaks of Bashan have they made thine oars;
the company of the Ashurites have made thy benches of
ivory, brought out of the isles of Chittim.</hi>&mdash;The prominent
tares, leaders (oaks), whom other tares follow and worship,
and who are fruitful in producing more tares (Bashan
means fruitful), are the mechanism (oars) for making
thee move and progress among the people. The company
of free-thinkers (Ashurite means freemen) have made thy
white (supposedly righteous) seats (ivory signifies dreams&mdash;of
immediate spirit life when they die) to be the seats
(seats of the mighty), of the rowers who work the oars.
</p>

<p>
27:7. <hi rend='sans'>Fine linen with broidered work from Egypt was
that which thou spreadest forth to be thy sail; blue and
purple from the isles of Elishah was that which covered
thee.</hi>&mdash;Thy ensigns, banners, sails, over thee, to be driven
by the winds of error, are false righteousness (linen), with
innumerable works of self-righteousness (broidered work),
and of worldliness (Egypt); thou wast covered with the
faithfulness (blue) and royalty (purple) of the worst of
earth's pagan peoples (Elishah, descended from Javan,
European, the most cruel and ferocious people of earth,
as shown by their history, including this furious world-war.)
</p>

<p>
27:8. <hi rend='sans'>The inhabitants of Zidon and Arvad were thy
mariners; thy wise men, O Tyrus, that were in thee, were
thy pilots.</hi>&mdash;The adherents of the belong-to-a-church or go-to-hell
idea (Zidon meant <q>fortress,</q> and the idea is the
fortress of ecclesiasticism), and the supporters of the
falsely comforting refuge of Platonic immortality of the
soul (Arvad means refuge, and Platonic heathen philosophy
is the refuge of philosophic Christendom) were thy
mariners, the ones who <q>worked</q> thy oars; thy philosophers
(wise ones), from Plato to Nietsche, charted thy
evil course, and were the real <q>sky-pilots</q> for the rowers
to row by.
</p>

<p>
27:9. <hi rend='sans'>The ancients of Gebal and the wise men thereof
were in thee thy calkers; all the ships of the sea with their
mariners were in thee to occupy thy merchandise.</hi>&mdash;The
doctors of divinity (ancients of Gebal) (Psa. 83:7) and
the creed builders said enough on both sides of any question
for theological authorities (calkers) to keep the people
(sea) from getting on the inside, or having any real participation
in thy affairs. In the middle of verse 9 the
figure changes back to that of the prosperous mercantile
city that Tyre was. All the independent religious and
philosophical churches and other organizations (ships) of
the sea (peoples and nations) with their sky-pilots
(mariners) were in thee, O Christendom, thou aggregation
<pb n='495'/><anchor id='Pg495'/>
of confused and contradictory philosophies, to receive, hold
and disseminate thy teachings, doctrines, traditions, fables
and philosophies (merchandise).
</p>

<p>
27:10. <hi rend='sans'>They of Persia and of Lud and of Phut were in
thine army, thy men of war; they hanged the shield and
helmet in thee; they set forth thy comeliness.</hi>&mdash;Believers
in the hell-fire superstition (Persians were fire worshippers),
and middle-course, conservative worldly men of sin
(the people of Lud and Phut were dark-skinned men, living
probably west of Egypt, type of worldly compromisers
with sin) were in thine army, those that fight the bad fight
of error for thee; in thee they hung the shield of credulity
(faith) and the helmet of a false salvation; they extolled
the loveliness of thy philosophy.
</p>

<p>
27:11. <hi rend='sans'>The men of Arvad with thine army were upon
thy walls round about, and the Gammadim were in thy
towers; they hanged their shields upon thy walls round
about; they have made thy beauty perfect.</hi>&mdash;The believers
in human immortality, thy philosophic refuge (Arvad
means <q>refuge</q>) with thine army just mentioned were the
wall of thy defense and thy watchmen, college professors,
economists (the Gammadim are thought to mean watchmen
or guards) were in thy watch towers; upon thy walls, in
the minds of thy supporters (walls) they hanged their
shields of credulity; they have made thy philosophies and
sophistries seem perfectly beautiful.
</p>

<p>
27:12. <hi rend='sans'>Tarshish was thy merchant by reason of the
multitude of all kinds of riches; with silver, iron, tin, and
lead, they traded in thy fairs.</hi>&mdash;Thy preachers (merchants,
trading in philosophy for gain) were a hard proposition
(Tarshish means hard), with an abundant supply of teachings
regarded worth while by the world; with worldly
truth&mdash;silver&mdash;with strong earthly authority&mdash;iron&mdash;with
actually worthless philosophies (tin was as the dross of
silver) and with downright wicked doctrines (lead symbolized
wickedness&mdash;Zech. 5:7-8) they taught and preached
(traded) in thy preaching places (fairs).
</p>

<p>
27:13. <hi rend='sans'>Javan, Tubal, and Meshech, they were thy merchants:
they traded the persons of men and vessels of
brass in thy market.</hi>&mdash;Believers in Greek philosophy
(Javan represented the Greek race), and believers in the
most far-fetched and uncouth ideas, such as monkey-born
evolution (Tubal and Meshech were the remotest and
rudest of nations), were thy preachers (merchants). They
sold men into bondage to sin, and presented teachings of
human perfection (brass) attainable otherwise than
through Christ. Brass should be translated copper, and
signifies perfect human nature.&mdash;T. 18.
</p>

<pb n='496'/><anchor id='Pg496'/>

<p>
27:14. <hi rend='sans'>They of the house of Togarmah traded in thy
fairs with horses and horsemen and mules.</hi>&mdash;The representatives
of the rudest and crudest ideas (Togarmah)
preached in thy churches with doctrines (horses) and with
followers of the doctrines and with mixed human and
spirit nature ideas (mules).
</p>

<p>
27:15. <hi rend='sans'>The men of Dedan were thy merchants; many
isles were the merchandise of thine hand: they brought
thee for a present, horns of ivory and ebony.</hi>&mdash;Men of low
ideals (Dedan means low) were thy preachers; many
revolutionary republics (islands) were thy preaching
places; they presented thee with dreams, visions (ivory)
of power (horns), good and bad (ebony).
</p>

<p>
27:16. <hi rend='sans'>Syria was thy merchant by reason of the multitude
of the wares of thy making: they occupied in thy
fairs with emeralds, purple, and broidered work, and flat
linen, and coral, and agate.</hi>&mdash;Believers in doctrines of lofty
self-righteousness (Syria signifies high land) were thy
preachers; they traded for gain in philosophies of eternal
life (emeralds) without Christ's purchase, with teachings
of self-kingship (purple), with works of self-mastery
(broidered work), with self-righteousness (linen), with an
imitation ransom (red coral), and imitation character
jewels (agate).
</p>

<p>
27:17. <hi rend='sans'>Judah, and the land of Israel, they were thy
merchants: they traded in thy market wheat of Minnith,
and Pannag, and honey, and oil, and balm.</hi>&mdash;With thine
errors were mingled God's Truth to make up thy mixed
doctrines. Some of thy preachers were really believers in
the Bible (of Judah and Israel), taught the wholesome
spiritual Bible truths (wheat), good teachings for the
natural man (Pannag means millet), and teachings about
Christ's Second Coming (honey), the anointing oil of the
Holy Spirit (Rev. 10:9, 10), and the balm of the comfort
of the Word of God.&mdash;Rom. 15:4.
</p>

<p>
27:18. <hi rend='sans'>Damascus was thy merchant in the multitude of
the wares of thy making, for the multitude of all riches;
in the wine of Helbon, and white wool.</hi>&mdash;Thy preachers
(merchants) were among the chiefest of the lofty, self-righteous,
lordly ones (Damascus was capital of Syria,
the high land), trading in all varieties of thy doctrines and
philosophies, especially the mixed doctrines (wine) of
earthly prosperity (Helbon, fruitfulness) and in natural
human righteousness (white wool).
</p>

<p>
27:19. <hi rend='sans'>Dan also and Javan going to and fro occupied in
thy fairs: bright iron, cassia, and calamus, were in thy
market.</hi>&mdash;Apostate Christians (Dan was the seat of idolatry
and types a class once spirit-begotten but fallen away)
<pb n='497'/><anchor id='Pg497'/>
and Grecian pagans (Javan represented the Greeks)
preached in thy church gatherings; lordship, authority
(iron), the claim of apostolic authority (cassia, deputyship),
and a claimed knowledge of the Bible (calamus)
were in thy churches (markets).
</p>

<p>
27:20. <hi rend='sans'>Dedan was thy merchant in precious clothes for
chariots.</hi>&mdash;Preachers of low ideals (Dedan, low) preached
that thy church organizations (chariots) should be made
presentable by being robed in the embroidery of many
works, church fairs and suppers, institutional work, and
civic and social service (chariot clothes or robes).
</p>

<p>
27:21. <hi rend='sans'>Arabia, and all the princes of Kedar, they occupied
with thee in lambs, and rams, and goats: in these
were they thy merchants.</hi>&mdash;Thy preachers, with claims of
consecration, separateness (Arabia, wilderness), and all
the powerful right reverends, fathers, and other lords
(Kedar, powerful), they traded (exchanged from one
church to another) their converts (lambs), old church
members (rams), and out-and-out tares (goats).
</p>

<p>
27:22. <hi rend='sans'>The merchants of Sheba and Raamah, they were
thy merchants: they occupied in thy fairs with chief of all
spices, and with all precious stones, and gold.</hi>&mdash;The
preachers in captivity (Sheba, captivity) to Satan, and
those who tremble at Satan's word (Raamah, trembling)
set forth a counterfeit of the Holy Spirit (principal spices,
Exodus 30:23), all kinds and degrees of self-development
of character (precious stones), and the alleged inherent
spark of the Divine (!) in man (gold).
</p>

<p>
27:23. <hi rend='sans'>Haran, and Canneh, and Eden, the merchants of
Sheba, Asshur, and Chilmad, were thy merchants.</hi>&mdash;The
preachers of New Thought, Theosophy, Christian Science
and other phases of Spiritism, self-styled, strong and enlightened
(Haran), set up and distinguished (Canneh), and
believers in delightful delusions (Eden, delight), are in
captivity (Sheba, captivity) to Satan, and really without
hope of Kingdom honors (Chilmad, level, plain, without
mountains).
</p>

<p>
27:24. <hi rend='sans'>These were thy merchants in all sorts of things,
in blue clothes, and broidered work, and in chests of rich
apparel, bound with cords, and made of cedar, among thy
merchandise.</hi>&mdash;These self-reliance preachers set forth the
robes of a counterfeit faithfulness (blue), fruitless works
of self-improvement (broidered work), and organizations
(chests) offering an imitation righteousness (rich apparel),
bound with cords of free-thought love and a delusive hope,
and represented as having eternal life (cedar).
</p>

<p>
27:25. <hi rend='sans'>The ships of Tarshish did sing of thee in thy
market: and thou wast replenished, and made very glorious
<pb n='498'/><anchor id='Pg498'/>
in the midst of the seas.</hi>&mdash;The mighty independent religious
sects (ships of Tarshish&mdash;Isa. 3:16) did preach of
thy philosophies and thou wast richly supported (replenished)
and made of great reputation (glorious) among the
peoples and nations (seas).
</p>

<p>
27:26. <hi rend='sans'>Thy rowers have brought thee into great waters:
the east wind hath broken thee in the midst of the seas.</hi>&mdash;The
picture changes back to a gallant ship. Thy strong
preachers (rowers) have steered thee into angry seas
(anarchy); the doctrines (winds) from the presence of
Christ the Sun of Righteousness (east wind) have broken
thy power in the midst of a time of anarchy (seas).
</p>

<p>
27:27. <hi rend='sans'>Thy riches, and thy fairs, thy merchandise, thy
mariners, and thy pilots, thy calkers, and the occupiers of
thy merchandise, and all thy men of war, that are in thee,
and in all thy company which is in the midst of thee, shall
fall into the midst of the seas in the day of thy ruin.</hi>&mdash;Thy
philosophies, thy churches, thy doctrines, thy preachers,
thy philosophers, thy Doctors of Divinity (sky-pilots),
thy church members, all thy church workers, and all the
multitude that come to church, shall fall in the anarchy in
the day of thy ruin.
</p>

<p>
27:28. <hi rend='sans'>The suburbs shall shake at the sound of the cry
of thy pilots.</hi>&mdash;Those affiliated with thee shall quake at the
shoutings and threatenings of thy sky-pilots.
</p>

<p>
27:29. <hi rend='sans'>And all that handle the oar, the mariners, and
all the pilots of the sea, shall come down from their ships,
they shall stand upon the land.</hi>&mdash;All those that work, the
influential church members, the preachers, and all the sky-pilots
of the anarchistic masses (sea) (Rev. 18:17-18),
shall abandon their independent organizations or their
heathen religions, and shall try to find more solid ground
to stand on than thou wast on.
</p>

<p>
27:30. <hi rend='sans'>And shall cause their voice to be heard against
thee, and shall cry bitterly, and shall cast up dust upon
their heads, they shall wallow themselves in the ashes.</hi>&mdash;They
shall speak against thee, and cry out with bitterness
against thee, they shall show signs of grief.
</p>

<p>
27:31. <hi rend='sans'>And they shall make themselves utterly bald for
thee, and gird them with sackcloth, and they shall weep
for thee with bitterness of heart and bitter wailing.</hi>&mdash;It
was a custom in ancient times for those who had suffered
great calamities to shave their heads. The Lord
promises such an occasion for weeping to Zion, His professed
people.&mdash;Isa. 3:24.
</p>

<pb n='499'/><anchor id='Pg499'/>

<p>
27:32. <hi rend='sans'>And in their wailing they shall take up a lamentation
for thee, and lament over thee, saying, What city is
like Tyrus, like the destroyed in the midst of the sea?</hi>&mdash;In
their bemoaning the downfall of so-called <q>Christian
philosophy</q> they shall lament over thee, saying, What
organization was ever like Christendom, like her who has
been destroyed in anarchy?
</p>

<p>
27:33. <hi rend='sans'>When thy wares went forth out of the seas, thou
filledst many people; thou didst enrich the kings of the
earth with the multitude of thy riches and of thy merchandise.</hi>&mdash;When
thy philosophies were accepted by the
masses, thou didst satisfy many people. Thou didst enrich
materially and mentally the rulers and the clergy-lords of
society with thy innumerable philosophies and thy doctrines.
</p>

<p>
27:34. <hi rend='sans'>In the time when thou shalt be broken by the
seas in the depths of the waters, thy merchandise and all
thy company in the midst of thee shall fall.</hi>&mdash;When thou
shalt be broken and engulfed in the roaring waves of
anarchy, thy doctrines shall cease and all thy supporters
shall fall.
</p>

<p>
27:35. <hi rend='sans'>All the inhabitants of the isles shall be astonished
at thee, and their kings shall be sore afraid, they
shall be troubled in their countenance.</hi>&mdash;All the people of
the revolutionary republics shall marvel at thy fall, and
the rulers of that brief era shall be troubled and afraid
of meeting thy fate in the anarchy.
</p>

<p>
27:36. <hi rend='sans'>The merchants among the people shall hiss at
thee; thou shalt be a terror, and never shalt be any more.</hi>&mdash;The
preachers (merchants) then taking their place
among the unbelieving masses shall scoff at thee; thou
shalt be a <q>worn-out and wasted thing</q> (literal) and never
shalt thou exist any more.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<quote rend='display'>

<lg>
<l>O bliss of the purified! bliss of the free!</l>
<l>I plunge in the crimson tide opened for me;</l>
<l>O'er sin and uncleanness exulting I stand,</l>
<l>And point to the print of the nails in His hand.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>O bliss of the purified! Jesus is mine;</l>
<l>No longer in dread condemnation I pine;</l>
<l>In conscious salvation, I sing of His grace,</l>
<l>Who lifteth upon me the light of His face.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>O Jesus, the crucified! thee will I sing,</l>
<l>My blessed Redeemer, my God and my King;</l>
<l>My soul filled with rapture shall shout o'er the grave,</l>
<l>And triumph o'er death in the <q>Mighty to save.</q></l>
</lg>

</quote>

</div>

<pb n='500'/><anchor id='Pg500'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 28&mdash;Destruction Of The Devil</head>

<p>
28:1. <hi rend='sans'>The Word of the Lord came again unto me, saying.</hi>&mdash;Chapter
28:1-10 depicts the destruction of priestcraft by
the sword of revolution and anarchy and by the Sword of
the Spirit, the Word of God.
</p>

<p>
28:2. <hi rend='sans'>Son of man, say unto the prince of Tyrus, Thus
saith the Lord God; Because thine heart is lifted up, and
thou hast said, I am a god, I sit in the seat of God, in the
midst of the seas; yet thou art a man, and not God, though
thou set thine heart as the heart of God.</hi>&mdash;To the exalted
class, the clergy (prince) of Christendom, as a system of
paganized philosophy: Because of thy pride of heart, thou
hast said through thy chief representative, the Pope of
Rome, I am as a god, I am the vice-gerent of Jehovah, my
seat is <q>upon many waters</q> (Rev. 17:1), upon <q>peoples
and multitudes and nations and tongues</q> (Rev. 17:15), yet
thou art man-made, man-ordained, and not of God, not
Divinely ordained, even though thou set thine heart to
pose before the people as Divinely ordained.
</p>

<p>
28:3. <hi rend='sans'>Behold, thou art wiser than Daniel; there is no
secret that they can hide from thee.</hi>&mdash;Behold, thou thinkest
that thou art wiser than Daniel (Z. '05-280); that through
supposed Divine inspiration, the confessional and the universal
clergy-spy system, there is nothing in Heaven or
earth which thou dost not know.
</p>

<p>
28:4. <hi rend='sans'>With thy wisdom and with thine understanding
thou hast gotten thee riches, and hast gotten gold and
silver into thy treasures.</hi>&mdash;With thy false philosophy and
thy misunderstanding thou hast acquired riches, much gold
and silver into thy treasury&mdash;many, too, of both Little
Flock (gold) and Great Company (silver) into bondage.
</p>

<p>
28:5. <hi rend='sans'>By thy great wisdom and by thy traffick has thou
increased thy riches, and thine heart is lifted up because
of thy riches.</hi>&mdash;By scientific suppositions of infidel Evolution
and Higher Criticism, and by good salesmanship of
these worthless goods, thou hast heaped up wealth; and
thou hast become proud, because of thy riches of materials,
doctrines and membership.
</p>

<pb n='501'/><anchor id='Pg501'/>

<p>
28:6. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore thus saith the Lord God; Because thou
hast set thine heart as the heart of God.</hi>&mdash;Therefore Jehovah
says, Because thou hast set thyself up in pride to be
as God, claiming to represent Him on earth as God's vice-gerent.
</p>

<p>
28:7. <hi rend='sans'>Behold, therefore I will bring strangers upon thee,
the terrible of the nations: and they shall draw their
swords against the beauty of thy wisdom, and they shall
defile thy brightness.</hi>&mdash;I will bring upon thee paganized
anarchists, strangers to thy theories, the terror of the
nations&mdash;and also My pilgrims and strangers, the sons of
God, those whom thy philosophy dreadest; and the anarchists
shall turn their weapons of destruction against
thee, and the sons of God shall smite with the Sword of
the Spirit thy falsely beautiful philosophy, and shall expose
the real pollution of thy wisdom.
</p>

<p>
28:8. <hi rend='sans'>They shall bring thee down to the pit, and thou
shalt die the deaths of them that are slain in the midst
of the sea.</hi>&mdash;They shall bring thee down to a dishonored
oblivion, and materially and religiously thou shalt die the
deaths of those slain in the roaring waves of anarchy.
</p>

<p>
28:9. <hi rend='sans'>Wilt thou yet say before him that slayeth thee, I
am God? but thou shalt be a man, and no God, in the hand
of him that slayeth thee.</hi>&mdash;Though thou sayest to the anarchy
that shall slay thee materially and to Him that shall
destroy thee religiously, <q>I represent God!</q>&mdash;yet thou shalt
be seen to be man-made and not ordained by God, in the
power of the destroyer appointed by Jehovah.
</p>

<p>
28:10. <hi rend='sans'>Thou shalt die the deaths of the uncircumcised
by the hand of strangers: for I have spoken it, saith the
Lord God.</hi>&mdash;Thou shalt die the deaths of the wicked by the
hand of the anarchists, and be destroyed religiously as one
of unclean conscience (uncircumcised) at the hand of the
sons of God, My strangers and pilgrims in the earth (1
Pet. 1:1); for Jehovah hath spoken it.
</p>

<p>
28:11. <hi rend='sans'>Moreover the Word of the Lord came unto me,
saying.</hi>&mdash;Verses 11 to 26 deal with the destruction of the
Devil, pictured as the King of Tyrus.
</p>

<p>
28:12. <hi rend='sans'>Son of man, take up a lamentation upon the King
of Tyrus, and say unto him, Thus saith the Lord God;
Thou sealest up the sum, full of wisdom and perfect in
beauty.</hi>&mdash;Satan, the Devil, the father of lies and king over
Christendom's system of pagan philosophy, is by nature
the summation of perfection, the personification of Wisdom
(Wisdom was one of the cherubs) and by nature perfect
in the beauty of holiness.&mdash;Z. '03-135.
</p>

<p>
28:13. <hi rend='sans'>Thou hast been in Eden the garden of God; every
precious stone was thy covering: the sardius, topaz, and
<pb n='502'/><anchor id='Pg502'/>
the diamond, the beryl, the onyx, and the jasper, the sapphire,
the emerald, and the carbuncle, and gold: the workmanship
of thy tabrets and of thy pipes was prepared in
thee in the day that thou wast created.</hi>&mdash;Thou wast in the
garden of Eden at the fall of man. Every good fruit of
character wast thine adornment (Rev. 21:18-21); with
this perfection of character endowment thou wast created.
</p>

<p>
28:14. <hi rend='sans'>Thou art the anointed cherub that covereth; and
I have set thee so; thou wast upon the Holy mountain of
God; thou hast walked up and down in the midst of the
stones of fire.</hi>&mdash;Before thy fall thou wast appointed the
care-taker (coverer) of the innocent pair in Eden. Thou
wast the embodiment of Wisdom (cherub), and endowed
with the Holy Spirit (anointed); and I so made thee. Thou
wast in high position in the holy heavenly Kingdom of
God (Eph. 6:12); thou hast had thy course of life among
God's holy angels (Isa. 14:13)&mdash;stars, fiery stones.
</p>

<p>
28:15, 16. <hi rend='sans'>Thou wast perfect in thy ways from the day
that thou wast created, till iniquity was found in thee.
By the multitude of thy merchandise they have filled
the midst of thee with violence, and thou hast sinned:
therefore I will cast thee as profane out of the mountain
of God: and I will destroy thee, O covering cherub, from
the midst of the stones of fire.</hi>&mdash;By their multitudinous
trading in mixed doctrines (merchandise) <q>for revenue
only</q> thy adherents, demons and clergy, have filled thy
following with violence and warfare; and thou hast sinned
unto death. Therefore I will cast thee as polluted out of
the Kingdom of God (A. 318); and I will destroy thee from
amongst My holy angels.
</p>

<p>
28:17. <hi rend='sans'>Thine heart was lifted up because of thy beauty,
thou hast corrupted thy wisdom by reason of thy brightness;
I will cast thee to the ground, I will lay thee before
kings, that they may behold thee.</hi>&mdash;Thou becamest proud
because of thine endowment of beauteous character. Thou
hast corrupted thy wisdom by reason of thy conceited
teaching of counterfeit wisdom (brightness); I will humble
thee to the dust, and expose thy real character.
</p>

<p>
28:18. <hi rend='sans'>Thou hast defiled thy sanctuaries by the multitude
of thine iniquities, by the iniquity of thy traffick:
therefore will I bring forth a fire from the midst of thee,
it shall devour thee, and I will bring thee to ashes upon
the earth in the sight of all them that behold thee.</hi>&mdash;Thou
hast defiled the churches of Christendom by thine iniquitous
doctrines and the teaching of them. Therefore I
will utterly destroy thee with annihilation, and thy following
with anarchy, in the sight of all that behold thee, in
Heaven and on earth.
</p>

<pb n='503'/><anchor id='Pg503'/>

<p>
28:19. <hi rend='sans'>All they that know thee among the people shall
be astonished at thee: thou shalt be a terror, and never
shalt thou be any more.</hi>&mdash;All shall marvel at thy destruction;
thou shall become wasted, devastated (a terror), and
never shalt thou exist any more.
</p>

<p>
28:20. <hi rend='sans'>Again the Word of the Lord came unto me, saying,</hi>&mdash;Verses
20 to 26 relate to the destruction of organized
Churchianity.
</p>

<p>
28:21. <hi rend='sans'>Son of man, set thy face against Zidon, and
prophesy against it.</hi>&mdash;Zidon meant <q>fortress</q>; and the
fortress of churchianity since the third century A. D. has
been the doctrine that, to be saved, men must belong to
a church organization. The King of Zidon typed the Devil.
</p>

<p>
28:22. <hi rend='sans'>And say, Thus saith the Lord God; Behold, I am
against thee, O Zidon; and I will be glorified in the midst
of thee; and they shall know that I am the Lord, when I
shall have executed judgments in her, and shall be sanctified
in her.</hi>&mdash;God says, I am against thee, organized churchianity,
and I will be glorified and made holy in thee, only
when I have executed retribution and justice upon thee.
</p>

<p>
28:23. <hi rend='sans'>For I will send into her pestilence, and blood into
her streets; and the wounded shall be judged in the midst
of her by the sword upon her on every side; and they shall
know that I am the Lord.</hi>&mdash;For I will afflict thee with literal
and spiritual sickness and death (shed blood).
</p>

<p>
28:24. <hi rend='sans'>And there shall be no more a pricking brier unto
the house of Israel, nor any grievous thorn of all that are
round about them, that despised them; and they shall
know that I am the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;The adherents to the
church-organization idea have persecuted and dispersed
both Jews and Christians, but they shall do so no more.
</p>

<p>
28:25, 26. <hi rend='sans'>Thus saith the Lord God; When I shall have
gathered the house of Israel from the people among whom
they are scattered, and shall be sanctified in them in the
sight of the heathen, then shall they dwell in their land
that I have given to My servant Jacob. And they shall
dwell safely therein, and shall build houses, and plant vineyards;
yea, they shall dwell with confidence, when I have
executed judgments upon all those that despise them round
about them; and they shall know that I am the Lord their
God.</hi>&mdash;The Jews shall enjoy God's earthly blessings, and
the true Christians His Heavenly blessings, when He has
executed justly earned judgments upon the people that
have adhered to or taught the belong-to-a-church-or-go-to-hell
idea.&mdash;Z. '94-76.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='504'/><anchor id='Pg504'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 29&mdash;The Egyptians A Type</head>

<p>
29:1. <hi rend='sans'>In the tenth year, in the tenth month, in the
twelfth day of the month, the Word of the Lord came unto
me, saying.</hi>&mdash;Chapters 29 to 32 are directed against Egypt,
its king and people, and against the surrounding peoples.
Egypt was divided into Upper and Lower Egypt, and was
known as Mizraim, which meant <q>Middle Country,</q> and
typed organized, entrenched and enthroned middle-course
worldliness. The word Egypt means <q>that binds or oppresses,</q>
and signifies the bondage of the Lord's people
to the oppressive, enslaving spirit of the world&mdash;the spirit
that slew our Lord (Rev. 11:8), and has enslaved and
slain millions of God's saints. Chapter 29:1-7 represents
worldliness as a crocodile, the dragon of Revelation 12:3,
etc.
</p>

<p>
29:2. <hi rend='sans'>Son of man, set thy face against Pharaoh, king of
Egypt, and prophesy against him, and against all Egypt.</hi>&mdash;This
message is against Satan, the Devil, the king of this
present evil world, and against all worldliness.
</p>

<p>
29:3. <hi rend='sans'>Speak, and say, Thus saith the Lord God; Behold,
I am against thee, Pharaoh king of Egypt, the great dragon
that lieth in the midst of his rivers, which hath said. My
river is mine own, and I have made it for myself.</hi>&mdash;Jehovah
says, I am against thee, Satan (Pharaoh means
the sun, the god of the sun worshipper, the Devil), the
great wicked dragon, also called Pagan Rome (later Papal
Rome), that dwells in the midst of the church denominations
(rivers, channels of Truth), and says, The church
system is mine own, and I (not God) made it for my own
purposes.
</p>

<p>
29:4. <hi rend='sans'>But I will put hooks in thy jaws, and I will cause
the fish of thy rivers to stick unto thy scales, and I will
bring thee up out of the midst of thy rivers, and all the
fish of thy rivers shall stick unto thy scales.</hi>&mdash;God will bind
thy utterances (jaws) with a chain (hook means chain or
ring) (Rev. 20:1), and will cause thy active worldly church
members and other adherents in thy churches (rivers) to
adhere to thy protecting doctrines (scales) and will
alienate thy churches from thee (corresponds to drying up
Euphrates) and from all thy active supporters.
</p>

<pb n='505'/><anchor id='Pg505'/>

<p>
29:5. <hi rend='sans'>And I will leave thee thrown into the wilderness,
thee and all the fish of thy rivers: thou shalt fall upon the
open fields; thou shalt not be brought together, nor gathered:
I have given thee for meat to the beasts of the field
and to the fowls of the heaven.</hi>&mdash;And I will cause thee to
be forsaken (in the wilderness), thee and all thy adherents
(fish). Thou shalt fall unprotected into the hands of
a cold, cruel world (open fields), not to be established
again in power, but to be destroyed by the evil revolutionary
governments (beasts) of the world (field), in
world-wide revolution, and by wicked criminals, jail birds
(fowls) and anarchists.
</p>

<p>
29:6. <hi rend='sans'>And the inhabitants of Egypt shall know that I
am the Lord, because they have been a staff of reed to
the house of Israel.</hi>&mdash;The worldly people who have been
no real support to either Jews or true Christians (Isa.
36:6; Z. '95-144), shall realize that Jehovah is the Lord.
</p>

<p>
29:7. <hi rend='sans'>When they took hold of thee by thy hand, thou
didst break, and rend all their shoulder: and when they
leaned upon thee, thou brakest, and madest all their loins
to be at a stand.</hi>&mdash;When they in their weakness sought
some aid of thee, thou didst roughly abuse them; and didst
try to destroy them in persecution.
</p>

<p>
29:8, 9. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore thus saith the Lord God; Behold, I will
bring a sword upon thee, and cut off man and beast out
of thee. And the land of Egypt shall be desolate and waste;
and they shall know that I am the Lord: because he hath
said, The river is mine, and I have made it.</hi>&mdash;And worldliness
shall be destroyed, and the people shall know Jehovah
as He is; because Satan said, The churches are mine.
</p>

<p>
29:10. <hi rend='sans'>Behold, therefore I am against thee, and against
thy rivers, and I will make the land of Egypt utterly waste
and desolate, from the tower of Syene even unto the border
of Ethiopia.</hi>&mdash;I am against thee and thy churches, and will
utterly destroy worldliness from end to end.
</p>

<p>
29:11, 12. <hi rend='sans'>No foot of man shall pass through it, nor foot
of beast shall pass through it, neither shall it be inhabited
forty years. And I will make the land of Egypt desolate
in the midst of the countries that are desolate, and her
cities among the cities that are laid waste shall be desolate
forty years: and I will scatter the Egyptians among
the nations, and will disperse them through the countries.</hi>&mdash;Christendom
shall be uninhabited and desolate for forty
years after its devastation.
</p>

<p>
29:13. <hi rend='sans'>Yet thus saith the Lord God; At the end of forty
years will I gather the Egyptians from the people whither
they were scattered.</hi>&mdash;After forty years God will gather
into the Kingdom the scattered worldly people.
</p>

<pb n='506'/><anchor id='Pg506'/>

<p>
29:14. <hi rend='sans'>And I will bring again the captivity of Egypt, and
will cause them to return into the land of Pathros, into
the land of their habitation; and they shall be there a base
kingdom.</hi>&mdash;And will bring them back from the dead into
their own country, where they shall be insignificant.
</p>

<p>
29:15. <hi rend='sans'>It shall be the basest of the kingdoms; neither
shall it exalt itself any more above the nations: for I will
diminish them, that they shall no more rule over the nations.</hi>&mdash;This
has been literally fulfilled upon Egypt, which
for many centuries has not enjoyed self-government.
</p>

<p>
29:16. <hi rend='sans'>And it shall be no more the confidence of the
house of Israel, which bringeth their iniquity to remembrance,
when they shall look after them: but they shall
know that I am the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;Neither Jews nor Christians
shall ever again look to the worldly people (Egypt),
(Isa. 30:1-5) for help; for the sight of the worldly will
make them remember Christendom's iniquity.
</p>

<p>
29:17, 18. <hi rend='sans'>And it came to pass in the seven and twentieth
year, in the first month, in the first day of the month,
the Word of the Lord came unto me, saying, Son of man,
Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon caused his army to serve
a great service against Tyrus: every head was made bald,
and every shoulder was peeled: yet had he no wages, nor
his army, for Tyrus, for the service that he had served
against it.</hi>&mdash;The forces of anarchy's king, the Devil, will
perform a great service in the Divine Plan of the Ages, but
there will be nothing in it for the anarchists.
</p>

<p>
29:19. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore thus saith the Lord God; Behold, I will
give the land of Egypt unto Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon;
and he shall take her multitude, and take her spoil,
and take her prey; and it shall be the wages of his army.</hi>&mdash;Jehovah
will give worldly Christendom to anarchy: and
this shall be the material reward of the forces of anarchy.
</p>

<p>
29:20. <hi rend='sans'>I have given him the land of Egypt for his labour
wherewith he served against it, because they wrought for
Me, saith the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;God will give worldly Christendom
to anarchy, for its labor in serving the interests of
God's plans against pagan religion masquerading as Christendom,
because in doing so anarchy will do its part.
</p>

<p>
29:21. <hi rend='sans'>In that day will I cause the horn of the house of
Israel to bud forth, and I will give thee the opening of the
mouth in the midst of them; and they shall know that I
am the Lord.</hi>&mdash;During the Time of Trouble God will cause
the power (T. 42) of the Jews to bud forth in Zionism, and
make known the glad tidings of the Kingdom, taught in
<hi rend='italic'>Studies in the Scriptures</hi>.&mdash;Isa. 19:1-25.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='507'/><anchor id='Pg507'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 30&mdash;Pharaoh's Two Arms Broken</head>

<p>
30:1, 2. <hi rend='sans'>The Word of the Lord came again unto me, saying,
Son of Man, prophesy and say, Thus saith the Lord
God, Howl ye, Woe worth the day.</hi>&mdash;Thus saith Jehovah:
Weep, and cry! O woeful day!
</p>

<p>
30:3. <hi rend='sans'>For the day is near, even the day of the Lord is
near, a cloudy day; it shall be the time of the heathen.</hi>&mdash;The
day is near, the day of Jehovah, a gloomy day&mdash;the
time of infidel anarchy!&mdash;Joel 1:15; Zeph. 1:7.
</p>

<p>
30:4. <hi rend='sans'>And the sword shall come upon Egypt, and great
pain shall be in Ethiopia, when the slain shall fall in
Egypt, and they shall take away her multitude, and her
foundations shall be broken down.</hi>&mdash;The weapons of anarchy
and the Sword of the Spirit shall come against
worldly Christendom. Great distress shall be upon non-church
members (Ethiopia, black) socialists, laborites and
revolutionists, when Christendom's slain shall fall literally
and spiritually, when her multitude shall abandon her, and
when her foundations&mdash;social, economic, moral and religious&mdash;shall
be broken down in war, revolution and anarchy.
</p>

<p>
30:5. <hi rend='sans'>Ethiopia, and Libya, and Lydia, and all the
mingled people, and Chub, and the men of the land that is
in league, shall fall with them by the sword.</hi>&mdash;The worst
peoples, darker religiously and morally&mdash;the socialists,
laborites and revolutionists, in touch with worldly Christendom&mdash;shall
fall with Christendom by literal weapons
and by the Word of God.
</p>

<p>
30:6. <hi rend='sans'>Thus saith the Lord; They also that uphold Egypt
shall fall; and the pride of her power shall come down:
from the tower of Syene shall they fall in it by the sword,
saith the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;All supporters of worldly Christendom
shall fall; her pride of power shall be humbled; from
end to end of Christendom shall they fall.
</p>

<p>
30:7. <hi rend='sans'>And they shall be desolate in the midst of the
countries that are desolate, and her cities shall be in the
midst of the cities that are wasted.</hi>&mdash;Worldly Christendom
shall be utterly desolated.
</p>

<p>
30:8. <hi rend='sans'>And they shall know that I am the Lord, when I
have set a fire in Egypt, and when all her helpers shall be
destroyed.</hi>&mdash;They shall know that Jehovah permitted anarchy
<pb n='508'/><anchor id='Pg508'/>
to start in Christendom, and will recognize Him,
when they see that all their helpers are destroyed.
</p>

<p>
30:9. <hi rend='sans'>In that day shall messengers go forth from me in
ships to make the careless Ethiopians afraid, and great
pain shall come upon them, as in the day of Egypt: for, lo,
it cometh.</hi>&mdash;At the time of Christendom's fall, the message
from God shall be borne by independent religious organizations
to the too-confident socialists, laborites, and revolutionists
that shall make them afraid of anarchy, and
great distress shall ensue upon them, as in Christendom's
fall.
</p>

<p>
30:10. <hi rend='sans'>Thus saith the Lord God; I will also make the
multitude of Egypt to cease by the hand of Nebuchadrezzar
king of Babylon.</hi>&mdash;God will make the multitude of adherents
to worldly Christendom to cease adhering to her, by
the power of revolution and anarchy and their instigator,
the Devil.
</p>

<p>
30:11. <hi rend='sans'>He and his people with him, the terrible of the
nations, shall be brought to destroy the land: and they
shall draw their swords against Egypt, and fill the land
with the slain.</hi>&mdash;Satan and his followers&mdash;devils and humans&mdash;the
most terrible of all the nations&mdash;the anarchists&mdash;shall
destroy Christendom's worldly order of things.
They shall attack Christendom with their weapons and
fill the land with their slain&mdash;as will the Sword of the
Spirit with those slain spiritually.
</p>

<p>
30:12. <hi rend='sans'>And I will make the rivers dry, and sell the land
into the hand of the wicked: and I will make the land
waste, and all that is therein, by the hand of strangers: I
the Lord have spoken it.</hi>&mdash;God will cause the denominations
to become dry of members and of money, will give
the order of things over into the power of the wicked anarchists,
and will desolate Christendom's order of things
and all belonging to it, literally by the power of anarchists,
strangers to the existing order of things, and spiritually
by the sons of God.
</p>

<p>
30:13. <hi rend='sans'>Thus saith the Lord God; I will also destroy the
idols, and I will cause their images to cease out of Noph;
and there shall be no more a prince of the land of Egypt:
and I will put a fear in the land of Egypt.</hi>&mdash;God will destroy
Christendom's idols of love of gold, power, etc (Jer.
43:12, 13), and will cause these gods to cease among the
more prosperous people of Christendom (Noph was the
Delta and richer part of Egypt); and there shall be no
<pb n='509'/><anchor id='Pg509'/>
more an exalted class, a worldly clergy class, in Christendom;
but God will put in her fear and failing of heart.
</p>

<p>
30:14. <hi rend='sans'>And I will make Pathros desolate, and will set
fire in Zoan, and will execute judgments in No.</hi>&mdash;God will
make the upper classes (Pathros, upper Egypt), desolate,
will permit anarchy and destruction to start among them
(Zoan, capital of Egypt), and will execute retributive judgments
upon the leaders of the upper classes (No, capital of
Upper Egypt).
</p>

<p>
30:15. <hi rend='sans'>And I will pour My fury upon Sin, the strength
of Egypt; and I will cut off the multitude of No.</hi>&mdash;God will
pour His fury upon Papacy, the strength of worldly Christendom,
and will cut off the multitudes that support the
upper classes.
</p>

<p>
30:16. <hi rend='sans'>And I will set fire in Egypt: Sin shall have great
pain, and No shall be rent asunder, and Noph shall have
distresses daily.</hi>&mdash;God will let anarchy start in Christendom.
Papacy shall have great distress; the upper classes
shall be rent asunder, and the lower classes shall suffer
daily distress.
</p>

<p>
30:17. <hi rend='sans'>The young men of Aven and of Pi-beseth shall
fall by the sword: and these cities shall go into captivity.</hi>&mdash;The
young men who follow Christendom's vain show
(Aven, vanity), and her honors (Pi-beseth, very exalted),
shall fall by the sword of anarchy; for these things shall
come to their end in anarchy.
</p>

<p>
30:18, 19. <hi rend='sans'>At Tehaphnehes also the day shall be darkened,
when I shall break there the yokes of Egypt: and the pomp
of her strength shall cease in her: as for her, a cloud shall
cover her, and her daughters shall go into captivity. Thus
will I execute judgments in Egypt: and they shall know
that I am the Lord.</hi>&mdash;For the lower classes also (Tehaphnehes,
in Lower Egypt), it shall be a dark day when God
breaks the bondage imposed by worldly Christendom. Her
pompous power shall cease. A cloud of trouble shall cover
her, and her churches (daughters) shall be taken and lost
in anarchy.
</p>

<p>
30:20, 21. <hi rend='sans'>And it came to pass in the eleventh year, in
the first month, in the seventh day of the month, that the
word of the Lord came unto me, saying, Son of man, I
have broken the arm of Pharaoh king of Egypt; and, lo,
it shall not be bound up to be healed, to put a roller to
bind it, to make it strong to hold the sword.</hi>&mdash;Ecclesiasticism,
Satan's right arm shall be broken, never to be healed.
The Lord's time for their punishment has come.
</p>

<pb n='510'/><anchor id='Pg510'/>

<p>
30:22. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore thus saith the Lord God; Behold, I
am against Pharaoh king of Egypt, and will break his
arms, the strong, and that which was broken; and I will
cause the sword to fall out of his hand.</hi>&mdash;God is against
Satan, the mighty king of worldliness, and will break also
the civil powers, and make him powerless to use his
sword.
</p>

<p>
30:23. <hi rend='sans'>And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations,
and will disperse them through the countries.</hi>&mdash;God
will scatter the worldly people among the anarchists.
</p>

<p>
30:24. <hi rend='sans'>And I will strengthen the arms of the king of
Babylon, and put My Sword in his hand: but I will break
Pharaoh's arms, and he shall groan before him with the
groanings of a deadly wounded man.</hi>&mdash;God will strengthen
the civil and philosophic (infidel, anarchistic religions)
powers of Anarchy; and anarchy shall both use the Bible
(God's Sword) and shall wield the sword of earthly weapons,
as His own sword; and this evil order of things, with
powers broken down, shall utter its dying groans of distress.
</p>

<p>
30:25. <hi rend='sans'>But I will strengthen the arms of the king of
Babylon, and the arms of Pharaoh shall fall down; and
they shall know that I am the Lord, when I shall put My
sword into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall
stretch it out upon the land of Egypt.</hi>&mdash;But this order of
things, with powers broken, and the anarchistic state of
affairs with strengthened power, shall realize that it is of
Jehovah's might, when anarchy grows in power and attacks
the existing order of things.
</p>

<p>
30:26. <hi rend='sans'>And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations,
and disperse them among the countries; and they
shall know that I am the Lord.</hi>&mdash;And the worldly peoples
scattered everywhere, shall by the fulfillment of this
prophecy know that Jehovah rules in the affairs of men.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<quote rend='display'>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>Mine eyes can see the glory of the presence of the Lord;</q></l>
<l>He is trampling out the winepress where his grapes of wrath are stored;</l>
<l>I see the flaming tempest of His swift descending Sword:</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 8'>Our King is marching on.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>I can see His coming judgments, as they circle all the earth,</q></l>
<l>The signs and groanings promised, to precede a second birth;</l>
<l>I read His righteous sentence, in the crumbling thrones of earth:</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 8'><q rend='post'>Our King is marching on.</q></l>
</lg>

</quote>

</div>

<pb n='511'/><anchor id='Pg511'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 31&mdash;Christendom Not To Endure</head>

<p>
31:1, 2. <hi rend='sans'>And it came to pass in the eleventh year, in the
third month, in the first day of the month, that the Word
of the Lord came unto me, saying, Son of man, speak unto
Pharaoh king of Egypt, and to his multitude; Whom art
thou like in thy greatness?</hi>&mdash;Chapter 31 represents Christendom
as a cedar tree which is cut down. It opens with
a message respecting Satan (Pharaoh, the sungod) king
of worldly Christendom (Egypt) and her multitudes. What
comparison could be made of her greatness!
</p>

<p>
31:3. <hi rend='sans'>Behold, the Assyrian was a cedar in Lebanon with
fair branches, and with a shadowing shroud, and of a high
stature; and his top was among the thick boughs.</hi>&mdash;Behold,
Satan and his counterfeit Christian system (tree; <q>Assyrian</q>
should probably read <q>teashur,</q> a box-tree), thought
of as never to end (cedar, type of man with eternal life),
and as a righteous kingdom (Lebanon, a mountain, white,
snowy), having as members (branches, like the branches
of Christendom) the great, the evil and the good, worldly
people, with protecting power (shadowing shroud) and
very prominent, with the greatest people at the very top.
</p>

<p>
31:4. <hi rend='sans'>The waters made him great, the deep set him up
on high with her rivers running round about his plants, and
sent out her little rivers unto all the trees of the field.</hi>&mdash;The
peoples and the secular truth (waters) made Satan's
system great; the great nations and the apparently profound
truths of liberty, fraternity and equality, made it
prominent, with its roots (plantings) nourished by nations
and sects (rivers) and sending out national and denominational
influences throughout all the systems of the world.
</p>

<p>
31:5. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore his height was exalted above all the
trees of the field, and his boughs were multiplied, and his
branches became long because of the multitude of waters,
when he shot forth.</hi>&mdash;Therefore Christendom's prominence
was exalted above everything like it in the world; and its
mighty members were increased in number and made of
far reaching influence, because of the multitude of their
people and of their teachings.
</p>

<p>
31:6. <hi rend='sans'>All the fowls of heaven made their nests in his
boughs, and under his branches did all the beasts of the
field bring forth their young, and under his shadow dwelt
<pb n='512'/><anchor id='Pg512'/>
all great nations.</hi>&mdash;All the jail-birds (fowls) of the powers
of spiritual control, made their church organizations
(nests) among its members; and under the power of its
membership (branches) did all of the governments (beasts)
of this world (field) bring forth their progeny; and under
its defense (shadow) dwelt all nations.
</p>

<p>
31:7. <hi rend='sans'>Thus was he fair in his greatness, in the length of
his branches: for his root was by great waters.</hi>&mdash;Thus
was it magnificent in its greatness, and in the extent of
its ramifications; for it was rooted in great peoples and in
great secular truths.
</p>

<p>
31:8. <hi rend='sans'>The cedars in the garden of God could not hide
him: the fir trees were not like his boughs, and the chestnut
trees were not like his branches; not any tree in the
garden of God was like unto him in his beauty.</hi>&mdash;In Christendom's
egotism there was nothing equal to her in this
age or the next.
</p>

<p>
31:9. <hi rend='sans'>I have made him fair by the multitude of his
branches; so that all the trees of Eden, that were in the
garden of God, envied him.</hi>&mdash;Christendom felt itself the
envy of everything, present and to come.
</p>

<p>
31:10. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore thus saith the Lord God; Because thou
hast lifted up thyself in height, and he hath shot up his
top among the thick boughs, and his heart is lifted up in
his height.</hi>&mdash;Because of Christendom's self-exaltation and
pride.
</p>

<p>
31:11. <hi rend='sans'>I have therefore delivered him into the hand of
the mighty one of the heathen; he shall surely deal with
him: I have driven him out for his wickedness.</hi>&mdash;God will
deliver Christendom into the power of the god (el, mighty
one) of the heathen, the Devil himself; He shall surely
deal vengeance to her; He will drive her out of existence.
</p>

<p>
31:12. <hi rend='sans'>And strangers, the terrible of the nations, have
cut him off, and have left him: upon the mountains and in
all the valleys his branches are fallen, and his boughs are
broken by all the rivers of the land; and all the people of
the earth are gone down from his shadow, and have left
him.</hi>&mdash;The anarchists, the terror of the nations, will lay her
low; upon the kingdoms (mountains), and among the people
(valleys) her members (branches) will fall, and be
broken off by her seceding denominations; all the people
of this order of things will leave her protection, and abandon
her.
</p>

<p>
31:13. <hi rend='sans'>Upon his ruin shall all the fowls of the heaven
remain, and all the beasts of the field shall be upon his
branches.</hi>&mdash;The jail-birds of ecclesiasticism, and all the
revolutionary governments of this state of affairs, shall
profit by her ruin and through her members (branches).
</p>

<pb n='513'/><anchor id='Pg513'/>

<p>
31:14. <hi rend='sans'>To the end that none of all the trees by the waters
exalt themselves for their height, neither shoot up
their top among the thick boughs, neither their trees stand
up in their height, all that drink water; for they are all delivered
unto death, to the nether parts of the earth, in the
midst of the children of men, with them that go down to
the pit.</hi>&mdash;No other earthly system may follow her proud
example; for all of them are delivered, as systems, into
death, to a dishonored place among the lowest in society.
</p>

<p>
31:15. <hi rend='sans'>Thus saith the Lord God; In the day when he
went down to the grave I caused a mourning: I covered
the deep for him, and I restrained the floods thereof, and
the great waters were stayed; and I caused Lebanon to
mourn for him, and all the trees of the field fainted for him.</hi>&mdash;In
the year 1918, when Christendom shall go down as a
system to oblivion, (Sheol) to be succeeded by revolutionary
republics, God will cause mourning. He will restrain
and defer for a brief period the threatening waves of anarchy.
He will cause the nations to mourn for Christendom,
and all the man-made systems (trees) of the world (field)
to become weak on account of her fall.&mdash;E. <hi rend='italic'>392</hi>, 372.
</p>

<p>
31:16. <hi rend='sans'>I made the nations to shake at the sound of his
fall, when I cast him down to hell (Sheol) with them that
descend to the pit: and all the trees of Eden, the choice
and best of Lebanon, all that drink water, shall be comforted
in the nether parts of the earth.</hi>&mdash;God will cause the
nations to shake with gigantic revolutions, when He shall
cast worldly Christendom, as an organized system, down
to oblivion (as He did the Jews in the Dives parable).
</p>

<p>
31:17. <hi rend='sans'>They also went down into hell (Sheol) with him,
unto them that be slain with the sword; and they that were
in his arm, that dwelt under his shadow in the midst of the
heathen.</hi>&mdash;But they also shall go down to oblivion (Sheol)
(E. <hi rend='italic'>392</hi>, 372), with Christendom, as well as those that were
her power, that dwelt under her defense among the people.
</p>

<p>
31:18. <hi rend='sans'>To whom art thou thus like in glory in greatness
among the trees of Eden? yet thou shalt be brought down
with the trees of Eden unto the nether parts of the earth;
thou shalt lie in the midst of the uncircumcised with them
that be slain by the sword. This is Pharaoh and all his
multitude, saith the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;Though worldly Christendom
is unsurpassed in glory and in greatness among other
systems, yet shall she be brought down to be one of the
most disesteemed grades of the social order; she shalt be
counted as one of the ungodly. The Egyptians practiced
circumcision, typical of worldly Christendom's counterfeit
ease of conscience through belief in error. This is said of
Satan, the god of Christendom and all his multitude.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='514'/><anchor id='Pg514'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 32&mdash;Christendom's Utter Downfall</head>

<p>
32:1, 2. <hi rend='sans'>And it came to pass in the twelfth year, in the
twelfth month, in the first day of the month, that the word
of the Lord came unto me, saying, Son of man, take up a
lamentation for Pharaoh king of Egypt, and say unto him,
Thou art like a young lion of the nations, and thou art as a
whale in the seas: and thou camest forth with thy rivers,
and troubledst the waters with thy feet, and fouledst their
rivers.</hi>&mdash;In Chapter 32 Christendom's destruction is depicted
in several ways: as the catching of a sea monster
(32:1-6); as the putting out of her light (32:7-8); also, in
addition the downfall of her systems (32:9-10) as a worldly
system destroyed by anarchy (32:11-16); as the going down
of worldly Christendom to oblivion (32:17-21); as the
fall into oblivion of the anarchists (32:22-23); of the Eastern
mysticism in Christendom (32:24-25); of her worst
classes (32:26-28); of the worldly religious people (32:29);
of the church organization of ecclesiasticism (32:30), and
of Christendom's king, Satan, and all his multitudes.
(32:31-32.) The message begins with a lamentation over
Satan (Pharaoh), king of worldly Christendom (Egypt),
and his visible representatives, the apostate clergy. Among
the nations they are as a lion in power and ferocity (lion
also symbolizes the Devil); and as a monstrous power
(whale) among the peoples (seas); they came with their
sects (rivers), and muddied the Truth (waters) with their
earthly-minded members, the clergy (feet), and filled their
churches (rivers) with worldliness.
</p>

<p>
32:3. <hi rend='sans'>Thus saith the Lord God; I will therefore spread
out My net over thee with a company of many people; and
they shall bring thee up in My net.</hi>&mdash;God will gradually
bring the Time of Trouble upon Christendom like a snare,
as a movement toward liberty for the people, through a
multitude of progressives, radicals, revolutionists and anarchists;
and these shall ensnare her unknowingly in the
great tribulation, and bring her up out of favor with the
people (out of the sea.)
</p>

<p>
32:4. <hi rend='sans'>Then will I leave thee upon the land, I will cast
thee forth upon the open field, and will cause all the fowls
of the heaven to remain upon thee, and I will fill the beasts
of the whole earth with thee.</hi>&mdash;Then God will leave her
<pb n='515'/><anchor id='Pg515'/>
defenseless against the whole world, and will cause the
worst classes (birds) of an apostate Christianity (heavens)
to feed upon her, and will cause the evil revolutionary governments
(beasts) of the whole earth to fill themselves
up with her former members.
</p>

<p>
32:5. <hi rend='sans'>And I will lay thy flesh upon the mountains, and
fill the valleys with thy height.</hi>&mdash;And her prominent members
shall die, and of her lesser people a great number.
</p>

<p>
32:6. <hi rend='sans'>I will also water with thy blood the land wherein
thou swimmest, even to the mountains; and the rivers shall
be full of thee.</hi>&mdash;The loss of life shall extend to her highest
government officials and rulers (mountain); and the
churches shall be full of her dead.
</p>

<p>
32:7, 8. <hi rend='sans'>And when I shall put thee out, I will cover the
heaven, and make the stars thereof dark; I will cover the
sun with a cloud, and the moon shall not give her light.
All the bright lights of heaven will I make dark over thee,
and set darkness upon thy land, saith the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;When
God shall put out Christendom's light in 1918, He will
blind the minds of ecclesiasticism (heaven) (A. 318), and
deprive their pulpit stars of wisdom from the true apostolic
stars, the Apostles. (D. 591). He will darken the understanding
of the Gospel (sun) of Jesus Christ (D. 590)
with the cloud of the Time of Trouble; and the light
(truth) of the Mosaic Law shall not shine forth in her.
</p>

<p>
32:9. <hi rend='sans'>I will also vex the hearts of many people, when
I shall bring thy destruction among the nations, into the
countries which thou hast not known.</hi>&mdash;God will also trouble
the hearts of many other peoples, when He shall visit
the same Time of Trouble upon other nations, where the
clergy had no sway.
</p>

<p>
32:10. <hi rend='sans'>Yea, I will make many people amazed at thee,
and their kings shall be horribly afraid for thee, when I
shall brandish My Sword before them; and they shall
tremble at every moment, every man for his own life, in
the day of thy fall.</hi>&mdash;Yea, He will make many nations to
marvel at Christendom's fall; and their rulers shall fear
and quake on account of her destruction, when they are
threatened with destruction by anarchy. Every moment
shall every man of them tremble for his life.
</p>

<p>
32:11. <hi rend='sans'>For thus saith the Lord God; The sword of the
king of Babylon shall come upon thee.</hi>&mdash;The destructive
weapons of the Devil, the King of Confusion (Babylon), of
Anarchy, shall be turned against worldly Christendom.
</p>

<p>
32:12. <hi rend='sans'>By the swords of the mighty will I cause thy
multitude to fall, the terrible of the nations, all of them:
and they shall spoil the pomp of Egypt, and all the multitude
thereof shall be destroyed.</hi>&mdash;By the weapons of a
<pb n='516'/><anchor id='Pg516'/>
mighty, revolted soldiery will God cause their multitudes
to fall, even all the terrible men of all Christendom; and
the anarchists shall take as their spoil the pomp of the
nations, and all the adherents of the nations of Christendom
shall cease to support them.
</p>

<p>
32:13. <hi rend='sans'>I will destroy also all the beasts thereof from
beside the great waters; neither shall the foot of man
trouble them any more, nor the hoofs of beasts trouble
them.</hi>&mdash;God will destroy all of the ferocious governments
from beside the great nations (waters); neither shall
worldly men trouble the people any more, nor the down-treading
oppression of savage governments make them
trouble.
</p>

<p>
32:14. <hi rend='sans'>Then will I make their waters deep, and cause
their rivers to run like oil, saith the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;Then will
God give the people peace (deep waters), and make their
course to run with quiet smoothness. They shall know
the deep things of God, and have the Holy Spirit.
</p>

<p>
32:15. <hi rend='sans'>When I shall make the land of Egypt desolate,
and the country shall be destitute of that whereof it was
full, when I shall smite all them that dwell therein, then
shall they know that I am the Lord.</hi>&mdash;When God shall have
made worldly Christianity desolate, and worldliness shall
be destitute of its prosperous worldlings, when He shall
have smitten with the great tribulation all that are at
home in their worldliness, then, in the better days to come,
shall they know Him as He is.
</p>

<p>
32:16. <hi rend='sans'>This is the lamentation wherewith they shall
lament her: the daughters of the nations shall lament her:
they shall lament for her, even for Egypt, and for all her
multitude, saith the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;The heathen religions
(daughters) shall lament worldly Christendom's downfall,
and the downfall of her adherents.
</p>

<p>
32:17, 18. <hi rend='sans'>It came to pass also in the twelfth year,
in the fifteenth day of the month, that the word of
the Lord came unto me saying, Son of man, wail for the
multitude of Egypt, and cast them down, even her, and the
daughters of the famous nations, unto the nether parts of
the earth, with them that go down into the pit.</hi>&mdash;These
verses depict the mourning for the multitudes of
worldly Christians, tares, when they and worldly Christendom
and the churches (daughters) of the great powers
(nations) are cast down to the disesteemed lower strata
of the social order, with those that die a disreputable
death (pit).
</p>

<p>
32:19. <hi rend='sans'>Whom dost thou pass in beauty? go down, and
be thou laid with the uncircumcised.</hi>&mdash;Worldly Christendom
has imagined herself of unsurpassable desirability,
<pb n='517'/><anchor id='Pg517'/>
but she shall go down to oblivion, with those regarded
as polluted (uncircumcised).
</p>

<p>
32:20. <hi rend='sans'>They shall fall in the midst of them that are
slain by the sword: she is delivered to the sword: draw
her and all her multitudes.</hi>&mdash;Her populace shall fall by
weapons of destruction, and by the Sword of the Spirit;
she is delivered to destruction. They shall draw her as
a system, and her adherents, as adherents, away for burial!
</p>

<p>
32:21. <hi rend='sans'>The strong among the mighty shall speak to
him out of the midst of hell with them that help him:
they are gone down, they lie uncircumcised, slain by the
sword.</hi>&mdash;The one strong among Christendom's great men,
no longer men of power, and those that helped her shall
speak of her downfall, in their fallen condition (Sheol);
they shall have fallen from high positions, and be as men
outcast and polluted, reduced to lowliness by the might of
anarchy, and by the Sword of the Spirit.&mdash;E. <hi rend='italic'>392</hi>, 372.
</p>

<p>
32:22, 23. <hi rend='sans'>Asshur is there and all her company: his graves
are about him: all of them slain, fallen by the sword:
Whose graves are set in the sides of the pit, and her
company is round about her grave; all of them slain, fallen
by the sword, which caused terror in the land of the
living.</hi>&mdash;The revolutionists (Asshur, Assyria, the revolutionary
anarchists) in multitudes shall go down to oblivion,
dead literally or dead to their order of things.
</p>

<p>
32:24. <hi rend='sans'>There is Elam and all her multitude round about
her grave; all of them slain, fallen by the sword, which are
gone down uncircumcised into the nether parts of the
earth, which caused their terror in the land of the living;
yet have they borne their shame with them that go down
to the pit.</hi>&mdash;There in oblivion shall be buried New Thought,
Christian Science, and other forms of Oriental religion or
Mysticism (Elam, Persia, home of Mysticism), and the
multitude of their believers, ceased then to be mystics;
all fallen by the literal sword or by the Sword of the Spirit.
</p>

<p>
32:25. <hi rend='sans'>They have set her a bed in the midst of the
slain with all her multitude: her graves are round about
him: all of them uncircumcised, slain by the sword: though
their terror was caused in the land of the living, yet have
they borne their shame with them that go down to the
pit: he is put in the midst of them that be slain.</hi>&mdash;The
anarchists shall put Mysticism to rest in destruction.
</p>

<p>
32:26. <hi rend='sans'>There is Meshech, Tubal, and all her multitude:
her graves are round about him: all of them uncircumcised,
slain by the sword, though they caused their terror
in the land of the living.</hi>&mdash;There shall be the worst classes
of Christendom, the anarchists themselves, in oblivion, all
in disrepute, destroyed in the destruction they wrought.
</p>

<pb n='518'/><anchor id='Pg518'/>

<p>
32:27. <hi rend='sans'>And they shall not lie with the mighty that are
fallen of the uncircumcised, which are gone down to hell
with their weapons of war: and they have laid their swords
under their heads, but their iniquities shall be upon their
bones, though they were the terror of the mighty in the
land of the living.</hi>&mdash;And they shall not be mentioned, not
even with these great men who have gone down as evil
but with some small degree of repute; and with them shall
be the end of war (H. 16); but the very memory of the anarchists
shall be as of iniquity personified.
</p>

<p>
32:28. <hi rend='sans'>Yea, thou shalt be broken in the midst of the
uncircumcised, and shalt lie with them that are slain with
the sword.</hi>&mdash;They shall be thought of as evil only, slain
with the sword, and disesteemed by the Word of God.
</p>

<p>
32:29. <hi rend='sans'>There is Edom, her kings, and all her princes,
which with their might are laid by them that were slain
by the sword: they shall lie with the uncircumcised, and
with them that go down to the pit.</hi>&mdash;In the general ruin
shall be worldly apostate persecuting Christendom, slain
by anarchy's weapons and by the Word of God. They shall
be polluted, and come to a disreputable end.
</p>

<p>
32:30. <hi rend='sans'>There be the princes of the north, all of them,
and all the Zidonians, which are gone down with the slain;
with their terror they are ashamed of their might; and
they lie uncircumcised with them that be slain by the
sword, and bear their shame with them that go down to
the pit.</hi>&mdash;The great ecclesiastical lords (north) and all
the adherents of the belong-to-a-church-or-go-to-hell doctrine
(Zidonians, among whom was Jezebel) shall go to oblivion.
Though a dreadful terror in their activities, they shall be
ashamed; they shall go down, as polluted with iniquity.
</p>

<p>
32:31. <hi rend='sans'>Pharaoh shall see them, and shall be comforted
over all his multitude, even Pharaoh and all his army slain
by the sword, saith the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;Satan (Pharaoh), the
god of worldly Christendom, then bound for a thousand
years, shall see the fall of these his multitudes, slain by
the literal sword, or by the Word of God.
</p>

<p>
32:32. <hi rend='sans'>For I have caused My terror in the land of the
living: and he shall be laid in the midst of the uncircumcised
with them that are slain with the sword, even
Pharaoh and all his multitude, saith the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;Satan
and his multitude shall cease to trouble the earth, gone
down finally to oblivion, as one polluted with iniquity.
</p>

<p>
From chapters 25 to 32 Ezekiel prophesied against seven
foreign nations (Ammon, Moab, Edom, Philistia, Tyre,
Sidon and Egypt), indicating <emph>ALL</emph> non-Christian elements.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='519'/><anchor id='Pg519'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 33&mdash;Why Ecclesiasticism Must Perish</head>

<p>
33:1, 2. <hi rend='sans'>Again the Word of the Lord came unto me,
saying, Son of man, speak to the children of thy people,
and say unto them, When I bring the sword upon a land,
if the people of the land take a man of their coasts, and
set him for their watchman.</hi>&mdash;A mutual responsibility
exists between one of God's watchmen and His people,
the one to speak and the other to listen. (33:1-19.)
Ezekiel recites his warning of Jerusalem's fall. (33:20-29.)
The people listen, but do not believe. (33:30-33.) This
chapter repeats the statements of 3:17-21 and 18:5-29 regarding
the watchman set to warn the people of Christendom,
his message and responsibility, and the responsibility
of the Christian people toward the watchman&mdash;Pastor Russell,
and his message and warning from God. <q>A man of
their coasts</q> refers to the clergy class appointed and ordained
by the people, and set by them as <emph>their</emph> watchman.
</p>

<p>
33:3. <hi rend='sans'>If when he seeth the sword come upon the land,
he blow the trumpet, and warn the people.</hi>&mdash;Who of the
clergy class have blown the trumpet of Truth and warned
<q>their</q> people of the impending doom of Christendom?
</p>

<p>
33:4. <hi rend='sans'>Then whosoever heareth the sound of the trumpet,
and taketh not warning; if the sword come, and take him
away, his blood shall be upon his own head. He heard
the sound of the trumpet, and took not warning; his
blood shall be upon him. But he that taketh warning
shall deliver his soul.</hi>&mdash;The people who have heard the
warning have only themselves to blame.&mdash;Isa. 58:1.
</p>

<p>
33:6. <hi rend='sans'>But if the watchman see the sword come, and
blow not the trumpet, and the people be not warned; if
the sword come, and take any person from among them,
he is taken away in his iniquity; but his blood will I require
at the watchman's hand.</hi>&mdash;The clergy have an awful
responsibility. Faithful watching on their part with their
great influence among the people, would have saved tens
of millions from physical death, and a host from the religious
death that will overtake so many. The outraged
people will turn on the clergy, as they did in the French
Revolution, and in a frightful carnival will exact full toll
for the lives lost in war. Responsibility for the Time of
Trouble lies squarely at the door of ecclesiasticism; for
<pb n='520'/><anchor id='Pg520'/>
had the clergy taken a united stand upon the Word of
God against industrial, social, political, moral and religious
evils, they could have reformed Christendom and prevented
the world war and the ensuing revolution and anarchy.
Our Lord said, prophetically, <q>Upon this generation shall
come all the blood&mdash;to the blood of Zechariah, whom you
will murder between the sanctuary and the altar.</q> (Matt.
23:35 Diaglott, foot-note.) Josephus says of this man that
he boldly accused the clergy of Jerusalem with being the
cause of the trouble upon the city. He was tried, accused
of inciting anarchy, was found innocent, and was then slain
by the clergy class. His fate represents experiences
coming upon the Lord's true people shortly.
</p>

<p>
33:7-9. <hi rend='sans'>So thou, O son of man, I have set thee a watchman
unto the house of Israel; therefore thou shalt hear
the word at My mouth, and warn them from Me. When
I say unto the wicked, O wicked man, thou shalt surely
die; if thou dost not speak to warn the wicked from his
way, that wicked man shall die in his iniquity; but his
blood shall I require at thine hand. Nevertheless, if thou
warn the wicked of his way to turn from it; if he do not
turn from his way, he shall die in his iniquity; but thou
hast delivered thy soul.</hi>&mdash;Pastor Russell faithfully taught
that <q>the wages of sin is death</q> (Rom. 6:23), and not
eternal torment. He also warned the wicked systems of
earth, political, economic and religious, that they should
surely perish from the earth, if they did not turn whole-heartedly
to Jehovah, the God of infinite Love.
</p>

<p>
33:10. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore, O thou son of man, speak unto the
house of Israel; Thus ye speak, saying, If our transgressions
and our sins be upon us, and we pine away in them,
how should we then live?</hi>&mdash;The nominal Christians of our
day were typed by the Hebrews who went to Ezekiel with
insincere objections. They have treated Pastor Russell
with a seeming but insincere respect. When they inquired
into his writing and predictions, based upon the Word of
God, they had no sincerity either in their questions or
their professions toward him or the Word set forth by him.
</p>

<p>
33:11-19. <hi rend='sans'>Say unto them, As I live, saith the Lord God,
I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked; but that
the wicked turn from his way and live: turn ye, turn ye
from your evil ways; for why will ye die, O house of
Israel? Therefore, thou son of man, say unto the children
of thy people, The righteousness of the righteous shall not
deliver him in the day of his transgression: as for the
<pb n='521'/><anchor id='Pg521'/>
wickedness of the wicked, he shall not fall thereby in the
day that he turneth from his wickedness; neither shall
the righteous be able to live for his righteousness in the
day that he sinneth. When I shall say to the righteous,
that he shall surely live; if he trust to his own righteousness,
and commit iniquity, all his righteousness shall not
be remembered; but for his iniquity that he hath committed,
he shall die for it. Again, when I say unto the
wicked, Thou shalt surely die; if he turn from his sin,
and do that which is lawful and right; if the wicked restore
the pledge, give again that he had robbed, walk in the statutes
of life, without committing iniquity; he shall surely
live, he shall not die. None of his sins that he hath committed
shall be mentioned unto him: he hath done that
which is lawful and right; he shall surely live. Yet the
children of thy people say, The way of the Lord is not
equal: but as for them, their way is not equal. When the
righteous turneth from his righteousness, and commiteth
iniquity, he shall even die thereby. But if the wicked turn
from his wickedness, and do that which is lawful and right,
he shall live thereby.</hi>&mdash;God has no pleasure in the destruction
of Christendom. If it had turned from its spiritual
idolatry and harlotry to obey God it would have been saved
from its impending doom. Its destruction is traceable
directly to a <q>small group of willful men,</q> leaders and
guides of the masses; namely the pope, the cardinals,
bishops, priests, ministers, revivalists and other religious
leaders who have mistaught rulers and people, and by their
combination of worldly and religious teachings brought the
world into a condition where the social elements are
working their mutual destruction. God pity the clergy
for what is coming upon them; for the people will surely
recognize the part they have signally failed to play in
not, by concerted preaching of true godliness, checking the
world's mad rush to anarchy and annihilation.
</p>

<p>
Literally the Scriptures foregoing are an affirmation that
any one who kept the Mosaic Law perfectly should enjoy
life indefinitely as long as he kept the law. Spiritually
it teaches the Christian that if he has turned from sin
to serve God, under the spirit of the Divine Law of Love,
he shall have life everlasting. (Rom. 8:13, 14.) Symbolically
it speaks to this evil state of affairs, or world,
especially to that wicked one, ecclesiasticism, and enumerates
its iniquities: it has sinned before God: it has broken
God's Law of Love and every other Law, and excused the
breach by sophistries. Romanism, with which Protestantism
has linked hands, teaches the most iniquitous and
wicked things.
</p>

<pb n='522'/><anchor id='Pg522'/>

<p>
<q>A culprit or a witness questioned by a judge, but in
an illegal manner (of which the culprit, of course, is the
judge) may swear that he knows nothing of the crime
about which he is questioned, although he knows it well,
meaning mentally, that he knows nothing in such manner
as to answer.</q>&mdash;Alphonso Maria de Liguori, Popish theologian,
bishop and founder of the order of Redemptorists,
1696-1787.
</p>

<p>
Again <q>Saint</q> Liguori: <q>He may swear that he knows
nothing, when he knows that the person who committed
the crime committed it without malice; or if he knows
the crime, but secretly, and there has been no scandal.
When a crime has been well concealed, the witness and
even the criminal, may and even must, swear that the
crime has never been committed. The accused may deny
his crime under oath, understanding that he has not committed
this crime in such a manner as to be obliged to
confess it. He who has sworn to keep a secret is not
obliged to keep his oath, if any consequential injury to him
or to others is thereby caused. If any one has sworn
before a judge to keep the truth, he is not obliged to
say secret things. (A woman who has really committed
adultery may deny it under oath, provided she has been
to confess: for then the sin has been pardoned, and has
really ceased to exist.) It is right to advise any one to
commit a robbery, or a fornication in order to avoid a
murder. We may be allowed to conceal the truth, or disguise
it under ambiguous or equivocal words or signs,
for a just cause, and where there is no necessity to confess
the truth.</q> And Liguori is still a <q>saint</q> in the
Roman ecclesiasticism, <q>where Satan's seat is,</q> and with
whom Episcopalians, Church of England men, and Protestants
generally, are trying to come together in a church
union or federation, destined fortunately to an early
decease.
</p>

<p>
<q>They are not to be called oaths, but rather perjury,
which are in opposition to the welfare of the Romish
church.</q>&mdash;The Lateran Council (<q>infallible</q>). <q>If any,
either alone or before others, whether asked or of his own
accord, or for the purpose of sport, or for any other object,
swears that he has not done something else which he has
done, or in a different way from that in which he has
done it, or any other truth that is added, he does not
really lie, nor is he perjured.</q>&mdash;Pope Innocent XI, another
of the <q>saints.</q> 1611-1689. <q>A man may swear that he
never did such a thing (though he actually did it), meaning
within himself that he did not do so on a certain day,
or before he was born, or understanding any other such
<pb n='523'/><anchor id='Pg523'/>
circumstances, while the words which he employs have no
such sense as would discover his meaning.</q> <q>Promises
are not binding, when the person in making them had no
intention to bind himself.</q>&mdash;<q>Saint</q> Antonio Escobar of
Mendoza, a Spanish Casuist and Jesuit, 1589-1699 (<q>Papacy
and Civil Power,</q> page 607). <q>I pronounce all Roman
Catholic priests, bishops, popes, monks, friars and nuns
to be the most deliberate and willful set of liars that ever
infested this or any other country, or disgraced the name
of religion.</q>&mdash;William Hogan, a prominent southern lawyer,
formerly a priest, on page 172 of his book, <q>Popery.</q>
</p>

<p>
Stealing is authorized by Popish ecclesiasticism: <q>A
servant has the right to rob his master, a child his father,
and a poor man the rich. The poor man who has concealed
the goods and effects of which he has need, may
swear that he has nothing.</q> In Romish theology it is ordinarily
a mortal sin to steal two pieces of gold; but,
<q>If any one steal small sums at different times, either
from the same or from different persons, not having the
intention of stealing large sums, nor of causing a great
damage, his sin is not mortal. If several persons steal
from the same master, in small quantities, each in such
a manner as not to commit a mortal sin, though each
knows that all of these little thefts together cause a considerable
damage to their master, yet no one of them commits
a mortal sin, even when they steal at the same time.
A son does not commit a mortal sin when he steals only
twenty or thirty pieces of gold from a father who has
an income of 150 pieces of gold.</q>&mdash;<q>Saint</q> Liguori.
</p>

<p>
Ecclesiasticism, the dominant power of the Gospel Age,
authorizes murder: <q>A man who has been excommunicated
by the Pope may be killed anywhere, because the Pope
has an indirect jurisdiction over the whole world, even in
temporal things.</q>&mdash;Dens, a Roman Catholic theological
authority in his <q>Theologica Morales.</q> Pope Gregory VII
(alias <q>Saint</q> Hildebrand), 1020-1085, pronounced that it
was no murder to kill an excommunicated person. <q>This
rule has been for 700 years and continues to be, part of
the ecclesiastical law. One of the later popes has declared
that the murder of a Protestant is so good a deed that
it atones and more than atones for the murder of a
Catholic.</q>&mdash;Lord Acton in the London Times, July 26,
1872. Says Dr. Isaac J. Lansing in <q>Romanism and the
Republic;</q> <q>Every person who had anything to do with
the assassination of Abraham Lincoln was a Roman Catholic.
John Wilkes Booth was a Roman Catholic; Payne
and Atseroth, also Dr. Nudd, who dressed Booth's leg;
Garrett, in whose premises he was killed; also Harold was
<pb n='524'/><anchor id='Pg524'/>
a Roman Catholic; Mrs. Suratt and her son were Roman
Catholics; their house was the headquarters for Roman
Catholics and for the Jesuit priests. All this was brought
out before the military tribunal which condemned some
of them to death. When John Suratt fled from Washington
he was taken charge of by Jesuits, and under a Jesuit
convoy was carried to France.</q>&mdash;Page 272.
</p>

<p>
<q>Catholics who shall assume the cross for the extermination
of heretics, shall enjoy the same indulgences and
be protected by the same privileges as are granted to those
who go to the help of the Holy Land. We decree, further
that all who may have dealings with heretics, shall be
excommunicated.</q>&mdash;The Lateran Council (composed of
candidates for Roman Catholic <q>saintship.</q>).
</p>

<p>
Papacy, the mother of harlots, also permits her clergy
to become criminals: <q>Were even the lives of her ministers
debased by crime, they are still within her pale, and therefore
lose none of the powers with which her ministry
invests them.</q>&mdash;Catechism of the Council of Trent. <q>A
mortal sin is that which kills the soul and deserves hell,</q>
says Archbishop John Hughes, of New York. Papal ecclesiasticism
controls the education of the nations under
threat of mortal sin: <q>Catholic electors (voters) in this
country, who do not use their electoral (voting) power in
behalf of separate (religious public) schools, are guilty
of mortal sin. Likewise parents not making the sacrifices
necessary to secure such schools, or sending their children
to mixed schools. Moreover, the confessor (priest) who
would give absolution to such parents, electors or legislators
as support mixed schools, to the prejudice of separate
schools, would be guilty of a mortal sin.</q>&mdash;Right
Reverend Charbonnel, Bishop of Toronto, Canada.
</p>

<p>
The chastity of an attractive and obedient young
nun may hang by the following slender thread: <q>When a
nun receives a precept from her prelate, superior, or confessor,
she should immediately execute it, not only to
please them, but principally to please God, whose will is
known by their command. If then, you receive a command
from one who holds the place of God (a man-made priest!)
you should observe it as if it came from God Himself.
There is more certainty of doing the will of God by obedience
to our superiors than by obedience to Jesus Christ
should He appear in person and give His command. The
nun shall be most certain of not having to render an account
of the actions performed through obedience; for these the
superior only, who commands them, shall be accountable.</q>&mdash;Liguori,
<q>Saint,</q> in Popish constellation of fallen stars.
According to Cardinal Manning, a bright star in the Roman
<pb n='525'/><anchor id='Pg525'/>
Catholic heavens (page 89 of his <q>True Story of the Vatican
Council</q>) the pope is infallible in matters of faith and
morals: and the canonizing of <q>saints</q> comes under this
head. Cardinal Newman on page 84 of his <q>Via Media,</q>
1887 edition, asserts concerning the canonizing of <q>Saints:</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>The infallibility of the church must certainly extend to
this solemn and public act, canonization; and that because
so serious a matter, affecting the worship of the faithful,
the church, that is, the Pope, must be infallible.</q> One of the
persons duly authorized by infallible Romish canonization is
<q>Saint</q> Bridget, who lived in 1360. This <q>saint</q> says: <q>The
Pope is a murderer of souls. He destroys the flock of Christ
and fleeces it. More savage is he than Judas, and more
unjust than Pilate, and worse and more wicked than
Lucifer. He has exchanged all the ten commandments
of God for this single one of his own, <q>Give me money,
money, money.</q> The Pope with his clergy are the forerunners
of Antichrist, rather than the servants of Christ.
The Pope's court on earth plunders the Heavenly court
of Christ. The clergy never read the Book of God; but
they are ever studying the book of this world. I once
loved priests more than men and even angels. The kiss
of those fornicating priests is the kiss of Judas when he
betrayed our Lord!</q>&mdash;Montagu, pages 305-6.
</p>

<p>
An essential factor in the power of this evil one, and an
important part of the iniquity of ecclesiasticism is the
Romish confessional, which many Episcopal and Protestant
ecclesiastics would, if they could, establish in the harlot
daughters, the daughter churches, Protestantism. This
feature is of Pagan origin. <q>Auricular confession was enjoined
in the Elusinian mysteries, by Zoroaster in Persia,
by Buddha in India, and was practiced by the ancient Babylonians
and Egyptians, the Mexicans before Cortez, the
Peruvians before Pizarro, by the Japanese, the Siamese,
and others.</q> The confessional has made of every priest
a spy upon the privacy of the home, the inner secrets of
business and the confidential affairs of city, state, province,
and nation. Theoretically the confessions are confidential,
as Dr. Dens says: <q>It is not lawful to reveal anything
that is told in confession, though it be to avoid the greatest
evil that can happen; but actually the secrets of the confessional
are revealed.</q> <q>De Sanctis,</q> page 122, says:
</p>

<p>
<q>While the penitent arraigns his faults with all the fatuity
of a simpleton, what is the confessor doing? Laughing
at the simplicity of the penitent: and afterwards in the
priestly orgies that follow a morning of great confessions,
in the hilarity that flows from wine, amid coarse explosions
of laughter, they describe the stupid folly of their
<pb n='526'/><anchor id='Pg526'/>
penitents; and each priest vies with his fellows in rendering
his own penitents more ridiculous than the rest. This
breach of faith extends to the highest of Rome's degraded
ecclesiasticism.</q> History records that Pope Pius V,
<q>saint</q> (1504-1572) <q>for the punishment of certain offences
took advantage of the confessional, which ought to be an
inviolable sanctuary.</q> Pope Sixtus V (1521-1590) told the
under clergy that <q>they could make a report to the Pontiff,
without any danger attached to revealing a confession, he
giving them absolution for the whole.</q> Elliott, a former
priest, in <q>Delineation of Roman Catholicism,</q> says, <q>All
our conversation ran upon the stories he [another priest]
heard in confession. It is the ordinary discourse of the
priests, when they meet, to inform one another of what
they have heard in confession. I was often present at
such conferences, where the conversation was so indecent
that even an honest pagan would have blushed.</q> <q>Every
day they (the Dominican monks) came and talked most
licentiously, relating things that had happened at the Holy
office at Perugia, confessions they had heard, etc.</q>&mdash;Scipione
Ricca, Bishop of Pistoria, and an Italian reformer, 1741-1810.
</p>

<p>
Bishop Hugh Latimer, of England (1485-1555), whom the
Romish ecclesiasticism caused to be burned at the stake,
said: <q>And so they came to know all the secrets that were
in men's hearts, so that neither emperor nor king could
say nor do, nor think anything in his heart, but they
knew it, and so applied all the purposes and intents of
princes to their own commodities. And this was the fruit
of their auricular confession.</q> Finally, from De Sanctis,
page 133, etc: <q>Confession in relation to society may be
defined as an universal spydom, organized and complete.
Confessors are not content to know the sins of those who
confess; but they must learn the regulation and management
of the family; and when an ingenuous youth or innocent
maiden comes under the fangs of a knavish confessor
(and which of them is not a knave?) they do not escape
until they have first revealed the secrets of the family
circle&mdash;without, however, being aware of it.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>De Sanctis</q> continues: <q>Encouragement is given to
theft, as to every other crime, by the facility of obtaining
pardon, and absolutions are given to robbers, usurers,
murderers, without their having made any restitution whatever.
They repair to the confessor, present him with a
goodly offering for a mass; or, if they are robbers of
celebrity, men abounding in wealth, they found a chapelry,
a benefice, or something of the kind. At Rome, for instance,
every one knows that Pius VII (1742-1823) granted
<pb n='527'/><anchor id='Pg527'/>
to all who hear confessions in the Holy house Ponterotto,
the privilege of absolving from restitution all who have
defrauded the Rev. Apostolic Chambers, or the government;
and all defraud, and run there to receive absolution.
But this is not enough. Leo X (1475-1521), in his bull
beginning with <q>Postquam ad Apostulatus</q> gives confessors
the privilege not only of absolving robbers, but
of permitting them to retain in all good conscience, the
fruits of their usury, robberies, thefts, etc., on condition
that part of the goods be given to the church!</q>
</p>

<p>
Ecclesiasticism is a greedy robber: <q>By confession many
families are immersed in poverty; because the grasping
confessor, taking advantage of the weak moments of a
dying man, has had the will made to the profit of the
clergy; and facts of the kind may be reckoned by the
million. The grasping cupidity of ecclesiasticism's will-hunters,
and the consequent ruin of innocent and helpless
families, formed the subject of an indignant remonstrance
of the German princes at the Diet of Nuremberg. To such
a length was this execrable practice sometimes carried
that the last sacraments were denied to the dying man
until he consented to make a will in the priest's favor.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ecclesiasticism's apostasy, in teachings and in life, has
sown the seeds of the fiery harvest of anarchy: <q>The
horrible consequence for religion is that infidelity advances
with huge strides, especially in Roman Catholic countries.
The enlightenment of the age no longer permits men to
believe in the priests blindly, as in the times of ignorance.
Free discussion alone could show that the doctrines of the
Roman church are not those of the Gospel; discussion,
as it would prove their falsehood to a demonstration, would
establish the truth. Discussion being prevented, it follows
that, seeing clearly the falsehood and iniquity of the
Roman doctrines, men believe them, because they are not
discussed, to be the doctrines of the Christian religion,
and abandon them, and live in indifference and infidelity.</q>
Protestantism, ecclesiasticism, has been an apt follower
of Papacy in suppression of discussion. Witness the systematic
world-wide ban on any discussion of Present Truth
as presented by God's watchman, Pastor Russell! Ecclesiasticism,
priestcraft, had for ages supplanted the worship
of God with paganism, and in the Gospel Age has insidiously
transformed the Gospel of Christ, has tried to destroy
liberty and progress and has built up a gigantic
system of oppression and destruction of the friends of the
Truth. The most ferocious of the popes are made the
<q>saints</q> of Satan's church. And, says De Sanctis: <q>In
canonizing such men, the Popes have canonized their doctrines;
<pb n='528'/><anchor id='Pg528'/>
hence it cannot he said that despotism, obscuration
[suppression of Truth], oppression of nations, and hatred
for any kind of progress, exist through the mal-practice
of any one of the popes; they exist by the very system of
the Papacy. The corruption of religion ought not to be
attributed to abuse of it by the individual, but to the
system; therefore the Gospel ought to reign in its purity,
and ought to be delivered from this great enemy; and Italy
and Rome ought to confer upon the world this great benefit
of despoiling the popes of their usurped power.</q> Why
not reform, purge, cleanse ecclesiasticism? As well try to
reform cancer. The sole safeguard is the destruction, excision
of the germs. Any real reform would cause the
prompt dropping out of the system-loving millions who
would soon reorganize into another vicious system. The
very constitution of ecclesiasticism forbids its ever being
other than what the Wall Street Journal denominates,
<q>that international nuisance, the church-state.</q> Here are
some of the articles of Papacy's present, past and future
constitution (infallible):
</p>

<p>
1. All human power is evil, and must therefore be under
the Pope. 2. The temporal powers must act unconditionally,
in accordance with the orders of the spiritual. 3. The
Church is empowered to grant or take away any temporal
possession. 4. The Pope has the right to give countries
and nations which are non-Catholic to Catholic regents,
who can reduce them to slavery. 5. The Pope can make
slaves of those Christian subjects whose prince or ruling
power is interdicted by the Pope. 6. The laws of the
Church concerning the liberty of the Church and the Papal
power are based upon Divine inspiration. 7. The Pope has
the right to practice the unconditional censure of books.
8. The Pope has the right to annul state laws, treaties,
constitutions, etc.; to absolve from obedience thereto, as
soon as they seem detrimental to the rights of the Church,
or those of the clergy. 9. The Pope possesses the right of
admonishing, and if needs be of punishing, the temporal
rulers, emperors and kings, as well as of drawing before
the spiritual forum any case in which a mortal sin occurs.
10. Without the consent of the Pope no tax or rate of any
kind can be levied upon a clergyman or upon any church
whatsoever. 11. The Pope has the right to absolve from
oaths, and obedience to the persons and the laws of the
princes whom he excommunicates. (Note. All Protestants
are excommunicated.) 12. The Pope can annul all legal
relations of those in ban, especially their marriage. 13. The
Pope can release from every obligation, oath, vow, either
before or after being made. 14. The execution of Papal
<pb n='529'/><anchor id='Pg529'/>
commands for the persecution of heretics causes remission
of sins. 15. He who kills one that is excommunicated is
no murderer in a legal sense.<q>&mdash;The Canon Law</q>, by Dr.
G. F. von Schulte, Professor of Canonical Law at Prague.
</p>

<p>
Here the crafty and wicked Mother of Harlots, ecclesiasticism,
asserts her infallible right to permit, directly
or indirectly, any and every crime possible for depraved
humanity to commit.
</p>

<p>
Protestantism longs for the old-time power of the clergy.
It has the spirit, disposition, of spiritual fornication,
goes to the limit in its efforts to control affairs through
local, state, and national governmental agencies, and now
is ready and willing to ally itself with liberty-destroying
papal ecclesiasticism. It displays its true nature and its
indifference to the good of the people in its willing eagerness
to unite in any manner with the force which has for
centuries throttled liberty, banished the Word of God, and
stifled freedom in blood. Let not the people of Christendom
overlook this when the Protestant clergy advocate
church union, as they will. What can be done with such
an organization as apostate ecclesiasticism? The truly
Christian individual's answer must be to obey the Divine
command, <q>Come out of her, My people, that ye be not
partakers [partners in] of her sins [outlined foregoing,
<hi rend='italic'>ad nauseam</hi>] and that ye receive not of her plagues.</q>
(Rev. 18:4.) The Lord's people, all that really have the
Holy Spirit, will and must <q>come out of her,</q> clean away
from this unhallowed partnership and federation with
iniquity. Ecclesiasticism, however, may rest assured that
she will not suffer greatly in loss of members or of persons
of wealth and power; for but few of the Lord's
people are in her. Each ecclesiastic can be assured that
<q>his people,</q> the tares, the worldly church members, the
Babylonians, the spiritual idolaters and fornicators, the
congregation of Molech, will stick by him until the heat
of the fiery trials of the time of trouble drives even <q>the
clergy's people</q> out into the open of worldliness.
</p>

<p>
Verse 13 shows that, in view of the enormity of ecclesiasticism's
iniquity, both Roman and Protestant, their
partnership in criminality, and their stubborn and willful
persistence in evil, <q>For his iniquity that he hath committed,
he shall die.</q>
</p>

<p>
33:20. <hi rend='sans'>Yet ye say, The way of the Lord is not equal.
O ye house of Israel, I will judge you every one after his
ways.</hi>&mdash;O house of nominal churchianity, the time has
<pb n='530'/><anchor id='Pg530'/>
come for God to Judge you, to recompense you double,
according to your ways!&mdash;Rev. 18:6.
</p>

<p>
33:21. <hi rend='sans'>And it came to pass in the twelfth year of our
captivity, in the tenth month, in the fifth day of the month,
that one that had escaped out of Jerusalem came unto me,
saying, The city is smitten.</hi>&mdash;In 24:25-27, after having cited
the skepticism of the Jews as to Ezekiel's message, it
was stated that from the time of Jerusalem's fall until the
tidings of the fall should arrive, Ezekiel was to be dumb,
having no new message to be heard by the people. The
intervening prophecies, chapters 26 to 32 are not against
the Hebrews, but against the heathen nations. The city
fell in the eleventh year of Zedekiah's reign, the fourth
month, the ninth day (2 Kings 25:2, 3), from which to
the coming of the tidings of the city's fall, on the twelfth
year, tenth month and fifth day, was one year, five months,
twenty-six days. On that momentous day came the tidings,
<q>The city is smitten!</q> Pastor Russell's voice was
stilled in death on October 31, 1916. If an application of
Ezekiel's period of dumbness is valid here as a time feature,
the tidings, the realization that Christendom is
smitten by the onslaughts of revolution, might be expected
to flash throughout the world on or about April 27, 1918, a
year, five months and twenty-six days after the death of
God's great watchman. As in Ezekiel 24:27, this would be
a sign, an indication to Christendom of the truth of Pastor
Russell's commission from the Almighty.
</p>

<p>
33:22. <hi rend='sans'>Now the hand of the Lord was upon me in the
evening, afore he that was escaped came; and had opened
my mouth, until he came to me in the morning; and my
mouth was opened, and I was no more dumb.</hi>&mdash;The Lord
made good His promise while the news was approaching;
and removed Ezekiel's dumbness half a day before, in the
evening, before the morning when the tidings arrived.
It was on the same day; for in the Hebrew system of
time, the evening began the day. This signifies that perhaps
half a year prior to the general realization of Christendom's
downfall, Pastor Russell, though dead, shall again
speak through this, the seventh volume of his <hi rend='italic'>Studies in
the Scriptures</hi>&mdash;for this is but the completion of his great
work of admonition and warning for the Church and for
Christendom.
</p>

<p>
33:23, 24. <hi rend='sans'>Then the Word of the Lord came unto me,
saying, Son of man, they that inhabit those wastes of the
land of Israel speak, saying Abraham was one, and he
<pb n='531'/><anchor id='Pg531'/>
inherited the land: but we are many; the land is given
us for inheritance.</hi>&mdash;After Jerusalem had been sacked and
King Zedekiah captured, as related in 2 Kings 25, <q>the
captain of the guard left of the poor of the land to be
vine-dressers and husbandmen.</q> These (<q>those inhabiting
those wastes of the land of Israel</q>) imagined that <q>the
land is given to us for an inheritance.</q> They thought they
would be left in undisturbed possession, but certain of
them came into further conflict with the Assyrians. Then
the land was made utterly desolate. This signifies, in
fulfillment, that while the revolution overthrowing ecclesiasticism
will make quite a clean sweep, there will still
remain some of the more lowly adherents of ecclesiastical
systems, who will imagine that they and their ideals are
to prosper and spread even to the control of the revolutionary
order of things.
</p>

<p>
33:25, 26. <hi rend='sans'>Wherefore say unto them, Thus saith the
Lord God; Ye eat with the blood, and lift up your eyes
toward your idols, and shed blood; and shall ye possess
the land? Ye stand upon your sword, ye work abomination,
and ye defile every one his neighbor's wife; and shall
ye possess the land?</hi>&mdash;But God knows their hearts, and is
against them, for their continuance in the evil ways of
ecclesiasticism.
</p>

<p>
33:27. <hi rend='sans'>Say thou thus unto them, Thus saith the Lord
God; As I live, surely they that are in the wastes shall
fall by the sword, and him that is in the open field will
I give to the beasts to be devoured, and they that be in
the forts and in the caves shall die of the pestilence.</hi>&mdash;A
sad awakening awaits them. As Jehovah lives, those
tares then surviving the ravages of revolution shall be
slain by the sword of anarchy, and shall have taken away
all pretense of being Christians. Those that have the
spirit of earthly ambition shall be given to be destroyed
by the savagery of anarchy; and those in the strongholds
and in the protected conditions of revolution shall die
literally of pestilence and be destroyed religiously by the
pestilential teachings of those evil days.
</p>

<p>
33:28. <hi rend='sans'>For I will lay the land most desolate, and the
pomp of her strength shall cease; and, the mountains of
Israel shall be desolate, that none shall pass through.</hi>&mdash;God
purposes to utterly desolate this evil order of things
and to completely abase the last vestiges of its pride and
pomp, and to cause the governments of this Age, even in
their changed forms of revolution, to pass away.
</p>

<p>
33:29. <hi rend='sans'>Then shall they know that I am the Lord, when
I have laid the land most desolate, because of all their
abominations which they have committed.</hi>&mdash;Then at last
<pb n='532'/><anchor id='Pg532'/>
the people that remain will realize that the war, revolution
and anarchy, were the righteous judgments of the
Almighty against the spiritual, political and economic
abominations of Christendom.
</p>

<p>
33:30. <hi rend='sans'>Also, thou son of man, the children of thy people
still are talking against thee by the walls and in the
doors of the houses, and speak one to another, every one
to his brother, saying, Come, I pray you, and hear what
is the Word that cometh forth from the Lord.</hi>&mdash;Reverting
to the present time, about contemporary with the realisation
that Christendom is smitten, the hypocrisy of professed
Christians is spoken against. The tares in their
churches (houses) will talk of Pastor Russell and his
works and words&mdash;they will read this book, and will urge
one another to <q>hear what is the Word that cometh from
the Lord.</q>
</p>

<p>
33:31. <hi rend='sans'>And they come unto thee as the people cometh,
and they sit before thee as My people, and they hear thy
words, but they will not do them; for with their mouth
they shew much love, but their heart goeth after their
covetousness.</hi>&mdash;They will come in numbers, apparently <q>as
My people;</q> and like all tares, imitation Christians, they
will listen respectfully to God's Words urging haste in
consecration for the coming Kingdom; but they will not
do the things they hear. They will manifest with their
mouths great love for God, but will at heart be the self-seekers
they always were!
</p>

<p>
33:32. <hi rend='sans'>And lo, thou art unto them as a very lovely song
of one that hath a voice, and can play well on an instrument:
for they hear thy words, but they do them not.</hi>&mdash;To
these people, in their insincerity and hypocrisy, Pastor
Russell's works will be scarcely a grade higher than an
entertainment, a beautiful song, <q>the song of Moses and
the Lamb,</q> well played on the many-stringed harp, the
Bible, but not heeded as of solemn import.
</p>

<p>
33:33. <hi rend='sans'>And when this cometh to pass (lo, it will come),
then shall they know that a prophet hath been among
them.</hi>&mdash;But when the things predicted in the entire sens
volumes of the <hi rend='italic'>Studies in the Scriptures</hi> come to pass,
then shall the tares, too late, realize that a great and
Divinely ordained preacher <q>hath been among them.</q>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>Master, speak! Thy servant heareth,</q></l>
<l>Longing for Thy gracious Word,</l>
<l>Longing for Thy voice that cheereth;</l>
<l>Master, let it now be heard.</l>
<l>I am listening, Lord, for Thee;</l>
<l><q rend='post'>What hast Thou to say to me?</q></l>
</lg>
</quote>

</div>

<pb n='533'/><anchor id='Pg533'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 34&mdash;The Unfaithful Shepherds</head>

<p>
34:1, 2. <hi rend='sans'>And the Word of the Lord came unto me, saying,
Son of man, prophesy against the shepherds of Israel,
prophesy and say unto them, Thus saith the Lord God unto
the shepherds; Woe be to the shepherds of Israel that do
feed themselves! should not the shepherds feed the
flocks?</hi>&mdash;God is against the clergy. Chapter 34 is a burning
arraignment of ecclesiasticism. It is to be taken in a dual
sense as concerning the clergy's treatment of God's true
people, the true Church on the spiritual plane, and of the
Jews on the earthly plane, both of whom the self-appointed
shepherds, the clergy, have neglected, abused and scattered.
(34:1-8, 17-21.) God will judge ecclesiasticism
(34:9, 10, 16, 17, 20, 22), and will Himself, through His
own agencies, regather and bless His true flock, Jewish
and Christian. (34:10, 11-17, 22-31.) The words <q>shepherd</q>
and <q>pastor</q> have the same meaning (D. 62; F. 287). Thus
saith Jehovah God to the clergy, from Pope to preachers,
Woe&mdash;in the revolution and anarchy, from 1918 on&mdash;woe
to the clergy that selfishly look out for <q>No. 1,</q> that
seek big salaries, live in tax-free and rent-free parsonages
and rectories, that apply to themselves every promise of the
Divine Word. Should not the clergy, the pastors, unselfishly
feed the flock of God?
</p>

<p>
34:3. <hi rend='sans'>Ye eat the fat, and ye clothe you with the wool,
ye kill them that are fed: but ye feed not the flock.</hi>&mdash;Ye
live on the choicest offerings of the people. Ye <q>fleece</q>
the sheep of their golden fleece. Them that are fed to
fatness with the Word of God, ye kill spiritually if ye
can. Ye have literally killed over fifty millions in bloody
persecutions. Ye have preached millions into a dreadful
death in the trenches. Ye do everything to the sheep but
feed them. Did I not command you thrice, <q>Feed My
sheep?</q>&mdash;John 21:17; 1 Pet. 5:2.
</p>

<p>
34:4. <hi rend='sans'>The diseased have ye not strengthened, neither
have ye healed that which was sick, neither have ye bound
up that which was broken, neither have ye brought again
that which was driven away, neither have ye sought that
which was lost; but with force and with cruelty have ye
ruled them.</hi>&mdash;Those weakened by spiritual disease&mdash;by the
pestilence of false doctrines&mdash;ye have not strengthened
<pb n='534'/><anchor id='Pg534'/>
with the pure Word of God, the Bread of Life. Rather ye
have thrown them poisonous, death-dealing doctrines
(1 Cor. 10:21) from the <q>table of devils.</q> Ye have not
healed with the Divine Word of comfort (2 Cor. 1:3-7;
Rom. 15:4) those spiritually sick with temporary ailment
of the soul. Ye have not bound up, with the strong
promises of God, the broken in spirit (Isa. 61:1.) Neither
have ye brought back into renewed faithfulness those driven
away by your treatment, nor sought to find and bring to
renewed relation to God those sheep that have strayed
from him in life and doctrine. Rather than feed them,
serve and shepherd them, ye have ruled them, lorded over
God's heritage (1 Pet. 5:3), as concerns both God's true
Christian sheep and His sheep of the Hebrew race.
</p>

<p>
34:5. <hi rend='sans'>And they were scattered, because there is no
shepherd: and they became meat to all the beasts of the
field, when they were scattered.</hi>&mdash;<q>My sheep know My voice
[of love], and a stranger will they not follow.</q> (John
10:4, 5.) They were not kept together, cared for and
cherished in the bonds of Christian love. There were not
among you the true under-shepherds having My Spirit of
Divine Love; and you, adulterous priests of Baal, and of
Molech&mdash;the cruel, fiery-torment God&mdash;none having My
Spirit could hear or follow. And when they were scattered,
they, the inoffensive, unresisting ones, became the
prey of every evil government and of every evil employer
and corporation. Ye made them cannon-fodder by the
thousands for the blood-guilty kaisers, czars, kings and
generals of your evil order of things.
</p>

<p>
34:6. <hi rend='sans'>My sheep wandered through all the mountains,
and upon every high hill: yea, My flock was scattered upon
all the face of the earth, and none did search or seek
after them.</hi>&mdash;My people wandered homeless and friendless
throughout all the nations of this evil world. My flock
of Apostles, martyrs, sacrificers, was scattered throughout
all human society. Not one of the selfish, idolatrous clergy
of either Romanism or Protestantism cared for them, or
loved My beloved ones enough to seek after them; but
rather ignored them, ostracized them, compelled their
silence, drove them out from the churches, and stilled their
voices in persecution and in death.
</p>

<p>
34:7. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore, ye shepherds, hear the Word of the
Lord.</hi>&mdash;Ye have done this for centuries; and God permitted
you to continue, because the time had not come.
But now has come the hour of your judgment, ye popes,
cardinals, bishops, priests, preachers, revivalists, and
clergy of Baal, of every order and grade. Hear ye the
Word of Jehovah.
</p>

<pb n='535'/><anchor id='Pg535'/>

<p>
34:8. <hi rend='sans'>As I live, saith the Lord God, surely because My
flock became a prey, and My flock became meat to every
beast of the field, because there was no shepherd, neither
did My shepherds search for My flock, but the shepherds
fed themselves, and fed not My flock.</hi>&mdash;As I live, saith
the Living God, surely because My true flock became a
prey, and was exploited by every evil ruler and employer,
because there was no true shepherd among you, and you
clergy did not love and cherish and seek for My beloved
flock, but you loved and fed yourselves, and starved My
true people with a famine for the hearing of the Word of
God.&mdash;Amos 8:11.
</p>

<p>
34:9. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore, O ye shepherds, hear the word of the
Lord.</hi>&mdash;Therefore, ye clergy, hear the Word of the true
God, Jehovah.
</p>

<p>
34:10. <hi rend='sans'>Thus saith the Lord God; Behold, I am against
the shepherds; and I will require My flock at their hand,
and cause them to cease from feeding the flock; neither
shall the shepherds feed themselves any more; for I will
deliver My flock from their mouth, that they may not be
meat for them.</hi>&mdash;Thus saith Jehovah God; Behold, I am
against the clergy (H. 12), great and little, high and low;
and I will exact from them an accounting for My beloved
people; I will take My flock entirely from them. <q>Come
out of her, O My people, and touch not the unclean thing.</q>
(Rev. 18:4; 2 Cor. 6:17.) And I will cause the clergy to
cease from feeding or attempting to preach to My flock, or
any flock in My name; for in a Time of great Trouble I
will deliver My people from the mouths of the clergy (Rev.
9:17-19), that My flock may not furnish them support any
more, that My people may not ever again be preached by
the clergy into slaughter.
</p>

<p>
34:11. <hi rend='sans'>For thus saith the Lord God; Behold, I, even I,
will both search My sheep, and seek them out.</hi>&mdash;Jehovah
will ignore the hireling, faithless clergy, and through an
agency of His own lowly despised, caluminated, ostracised
will patiently, persistently, lovingly search for all His
<q>little ones,</q> those having His Spirit, and will seek them
out.
</p>

<p>
34:12. <hi rend='sans'>As a shepherd seeketh out his flock in the day
that he is among his sheep that are scattered; so will I
seek out My sheep, and will deliver them out of all places
where they have been scattered in the cloudy and dark
day.</hi>&mdash;As an oriental shepherd, who knows and loves his
sheep and is known and loved of them, seeks them out,
when they are scattered (John 10:4-15), so will God seek
<pb n='536'/><anchor id='Pg536'/>
out every one of His beloved ones, and will deliver them
out of the condition of loneliness, distress, famine and persecution,
where they have been scattered by the apostate
clergy in the troublous and dark period of the Gospel Age.
</p>

<p>
34:13. <hi rend='sans'>And I will bring them out from the people, and
gather them from the countries, and will bring them to
their own land, and feed them upon the mountains of Israel
by the rivers, and in all the inhabited places of the country.</hi>&mdash;God
himself will bring them together from the various
paganized <q>Christian</q> denominations, into the joy and
peace and love of a condition at one with Himself and with
others of like precious faith. Upon the height of the Heavenly
Kingdom will He feed them, by rivers of crystal
clear Truth, and amid the rejoicing throngs of the Heavenly
courts. His chosen people, the Jews, will God bring
by the agency of the resurrected Ancient Worthies to Palestine,
where He will feed them upon the historic mountains
of that hallowed land, in the then great cities of a
realized Zionism.
</p>

<p>
34:14. <hi rend='sans'>I will feed them in a good pasture, and upon the
high mountains of Israel shall their fold be: there shall
they lie in a good fold, and in a fat pasture shall they feed
upon the mountains of Israel.</hi>&mdash;God will feed His Little
Flock, first on Present Truth and then, at the Marriage
Supper of the Lamb He will appoint their place as Kings
and Priests of the Kingdom. He will make them abide forever
in the place, the Divine spirit nature, which Christ
went to Heaven to prepare. Upon the Word, fresh from the
mind of God, shall they feast forever, in the spiritual phase
of the Kingdom. To the Jews will be fulfilled these promises
in the earthly phase of the Kingdom.
</p>

<p>
34:15. <hi rend='sans'>I will feed My flock, and I will cause them to lie
down, saith the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;God will feed His Flock with
Present Truth, and will give them the rest of <q>the peace
that passeth understanding.</q>&mdash;Phil. 4:7.
</p>

<p>
34:16. <hi rend='sans'>I will seek that which was lost, and bring again
that which was driven away, and will bind up that which
was broken, and will strengthen that which was sick; but
I will destroy the fat and the strong; I will feed them with
judgment.</hi>&mdash;Not one true sheep shall be lost. God's unerring
eye will seek every one, and bring all back, first into the
Truth, and then into the Kingdom. He will bind up the
broken in spirit and strengthen the spiritually sick. In
the latter part of this verse the picture of the shepherds
is dropped and a new parable begins, likening the clergy
and their strong supporters and <q>laity</q> to different classes
of sheep and goats (cattle). God purposes in the impending
revolution and anarchy to destroy all the fat priests
<pb n='537'/><anchor id='Pg537'/>
and clergy of all grades&mdash;as priests and clergy, at least&mdash;and
those that, like the Pharisees of old, are sure they
will securely stand in the presence of the Lord. <q>Let
him that thinketh he standeth take heed lest he fall.</q> (1
Cor. 10:12.) He will feed them with famine and destruction,
and with the judgments pronounced in His Word.
</p>

<p>
34:17. <hi rend='sans'>And as for you, O My flock, thus saith the Lord
God; Behold, I judge between cattle and cattle, between the
rams and the goats.</hi>&mdash;The nominal flock is made up of
clergy and laity of sheep and goats. In the flock God discerns
the weaker sheep and the stronger rams and the
goats&mdash;the clergy, class-leaders, etc.,&mdash;some of whom are
real sheep and some goats, destined to the left side of disfavor.
Many of these are even wolves in sheep's clothing.&mdash;Matt.
7:15.
</p>

<p>
34:18. <hi rend='sans'>Seemeth it a small thing unto you to have eaten
up the good pasture, but ye must tread down with your
feet the residue of your pastures? and to have drunk of
the deep waters, but ye must foul the residue with your
feet?</hi>&mdash;The stronger ones have not helped the weak to feed
and grow strong; but, as though it were a small matter,
the clergy, have lived on the fat of the land, relatively to
their poorer congregations. They have eaten up the good
Word of God for themselves, particularly the Romish
clergy; and what spiritual food they have given the laity,
they have walked all over with muddy feet&mdash;mingled it
with earthly doctrines, social and civic betterment and traditions
of men. They have drunk of the water of Truth
(C. 65) coming from the Bible, but have spoiled the waters
by mingling it with Evolution and Higher Criticism.
</p>

<p>
34:19. <hi rend='sans'>And as for My flock, they eat that which ye have
trodden down with your feet; and they drink that which
yet have fouled with your feet.</hi>&mdash;And the laity, God's flock,
whom God commissioned the shepherds to feed with the
good Word of God, have eaten and drunk spiritual food
polluted by the clergy with doctrines of devils.
</p>

<p>
34:20. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore thus saith the Lord God unto them;
Behold I, even I, will judge between the fat cattle and between
the lean cattle.</hi>&mdash;Therefore God Himself is about to
judge and make a manifest difference between the unfaithful,
rich in learning and opportunity, and the poorer ones
on whom they have imposed.
</p>

<p>
34:21. <hi rend='sans'>Because ye have thrust with side and with shoulder,
and pushed all the diseased with your horns, till ye
have scattered them abroad.</hi>&mdash;Because the rich, learned and
exclusive have shoved aside the weaker ones, and have, by
their earthly power, pushed out of the churches all His
flock, those not <q>at ease in Zion.</q>&mdash;Amos 6:1; Isa. 66:5.
</p>

<pb n='538'/><anchor id='Pg538'/>

<p>
34:22. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore will I save My flock, and they shall no
more be a prey; and I will judge between cattle and cattle.</hi>&mdash;Therefore
will God Himself save His own in these troublous
times, by teaching them Present Truth; and they
shall <q>come out of her</q> (Rev. 18:4), out of the churches
altogether, so that the clergy and the <q>best</q> people can no
longer exploit them.
</p>

<p>
34:23. <hi rend='sans'>And I will set up one Shepherd over them, and
He shall feed them, even My servant David; He shall feed
them, and He shall be their Shepherd.</hi>&mdash;God has established
Jesus (David) the Beloved (Jer. 23; 4, 5; John
10:11), and Pastor Russell as a faithful and wise under-shepherd,
to bring forth from the Bible Storehouse truths
new and old, to feed the sheep.
</p>

<p>
34:24. <hi rend='sans'>And I the Lord will be their God, and My servant
David a prince among them; I the Lord have spoken it.</hi>&mdash;Jehovah
(not the eternal-torment Molech God) will be their
God, and His beloved Son and his under-shepherds shall
occupy exalted places among them. In the Times of Restitution
the Beloved Christ, Head and body, (David, beloved)
will be the true Shepherd to the earthly flock, the Jews.
</p>

<p>
34:25. <hi rend='sans'>And I will make with them a covenant of peace, and
will cause the evil beasts to cease out of the land: and
they shall dwell safely in the wilderness and sleep in the
woods.</hi>&mdash;With the truly Christian flock God will make a
covenant of the peace that passeth understanding (Phil.
4:7); and with the Jews will make the New Covenant
through its Mediator, The Christ. He will cause the roaring
lion (Isa. 35:9), Satan, to cease from troubling (Job
3:17), and will forever restrain in oblivion the evil governments.
His flock shall dwell securely, even in the wilderness
condition, until their change come (Job. 14:14), and
shall rest in the cooling shadows (Cant. 2:3), in the refreshing
truths brought forth from the Storehouse by righteous,
strong teachers and leaders among them.
</p>

<p>
34:26. <hi rend='sans'>And I will make them and the places round about
My hill a blessing; and I will cause the shower to come
down in his season; there shall be showers of blessing.</hi>&mdash;The
Lord will make the Truth people, His flock, and everything
and every condition related to His Kingdom, a blessing
to others (Mal. 3:10); they shall be the Seed of Abraham,
to bless all the families of the earth. (Gal. 3:8.) God
has caused showers of truth to descend upon His flock at
their appointed times, down-pours of spiritual blessing in
the <q><hi rend='italic'>Studies in the Scriptures</hi>.</q> At the appointed time of
the beginning of returning favor to the Jews, 1878, the latter
rains began to fall in Palestine, making that fertile land
a fit habitation again for the chosen nation.
</p>

<pb n='539'/><anchor id='Pg539'/>

<p>
34:27. <hi rend='sans'>And the tree of the field shall yield her fruit, and
the earth shall yield her increase, and they shall be safe
in their land, and shall know that I am the Lord, when I
have broken the bands of their yoke, and delivered them
out of the hand of those that served themselves of them.</hi>&mdash;Thinking,
manly men, gathered into Present Truth from
the world, yield their fruitage of spirit fruits of character;
and the blessed condition in which they are yields its increase
of spiritual blessing and food; they are safe in their
place, <q>seated with Christ in the Heavenlies</q> (Eph. 1:3,
20), where they assuredly know God with heart knowledge.
God has broken the bands of the heavy yoke of ecclesiasticism,
and delivered them out of the hand of a clergy that
lived upon His flock, calling it <q>their people.</q> For Fleshly
Israel and those who shall become Israelites there shall be
the blessings of an earthly Eden, with an abundance of fruitage
from trees and soil (A. 192).
</p>

<p>
34:28. <hi rend='sans'>And they shall no more be a prey to the heathen,
neither shall the beast of the land devour them; but they
shall dwell safely, and none shall make them afraid.</hi>&mdash;God's
flock of spirit-begotten ones shall be no more preyed upon
by paganized <q>Christians,</q> nor persecuted, devoured, destroyed,
by the great <q>beast</q> of Christendom, the Papacy,
with its <q>Holy Inquisition;</q> but they shall dwell safely in
the hollow of His hand, His power, and none can make
afraid those sealed in their foreheads with the Truth.
</p>

<p>
34:29. <hi rend='sans'>And I will raise up for them a plant of renown,
and they shall be no more consumed with hunger in the
land, neither bear the shame of the heathen any more.</hi>&mdash;God
raised up, in 1878, in the First Resurrection of the
dead, the Body members of His Son, <q>the Stem of David,</q>
and previously in 1874, had sent again His Son to feed the
flock, to serve them (Luke 12:37), and sup with them
(Rev. 3:20) in a feast of fat things spiritual&mdash;the Present
Truth. Those in the Truth shall never again suffer from
famine of the Word of God; nor shall they, when raised up
to sit with Christ in power and glory (Matt. 19:28), ever
again bear reproach from a paganized <q>Christian</q> apostasy.
</p>

<p>
34:30. <hi rend='sans'>Thus shall they know that I the Lord their God
am with them, and that they, even the house of Israel, are
My people, saith the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;This is the way that the
Lord's Spiritual Flock and both Jews, and nominal Christians,
shall come to know of a certainty that Jehovah is
with them, that they are His people.
</p>

<p>
34:31. <hi rend='sans'>And ye My flock, the flock of My pasture, are
men, and I am your God, saith the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;This prophecy,
this type, this symbolism, refers to the people who
constitute God's flock, Jewish and nominal.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='540'/><anchor id='Pg540'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 35&mdash;Edom A Type</head>

<p>
35:1, 2. <hi rend='sans'>Moreover the Word of the Lord came onto me,
saying, Son of man, set thy face against mount Seir, and
prophesy against it.</hi>&mdash;Mount Seir and Edom are practically
synonymous; for the Edomites inhabited the mountain
range region along the east side of the valley, extending
from the Dead Sea to the Elamitic or Persian Gulf. What
Edom types Pastor Russell makes clear in volume IV of
<hi rend='italic'>Scripture Studies</hi>, pp. 14, 20.
</p>

<p>
One of the features of the Time of Trouble will be upon
the fleshly-minded Christians, tares, who after the fall of
ecclesiasticism, will repudiate Christianity, and take their
stand as worldings, Edomites&mdash;the <q>people of Mount Seir,</q>
mere tares. These, having assisted in the downfall of ecclesiasticism,
will seek to take the place and power of defunct
Christendom in an utterly Christless arrangement of
things.
</p>

<p>
35:3. <hi rend='sans'>And say unto it, Thus saith the Lord God, Behold,
O mount Seir, I am against thee, and I will stretch
out Mine hand against thee, and I will make thee most
desolate.</hi>&mdash;The godless nations that will succeed fallen
Christendom will also find God against them, and that His
power is stretched out against them and will make them,
too, most desolate.
</p>

<p>
35:4. <hi rend='sans'>I will lay the cities waste, and thou shalt be desolate,
and thou shalt know that I am the Lord.</hi>&mdash;God will,
through anarchy, lay waste the Socialistic, labor-union, social-democratic
and other governments which will emerge
as the outcome of the revolutions of Christendom.
</p>

<p>
35:5. <hi rend='sans'>Because thou hast had a perpetual hatred, and
hast shed the blood of the children of Israel by the force of
the sword in the time of their calamity, in the time that
their iniquity had an end.</hi>&mdash;These economic-political movements&mdash;Socialism,
labor-unionism, syndicalism, nihilism,
and others, but not including anarchy, which will swallow
them up&mdash;have had a long standing hatred against ecclesiasticism,
have spoken and worked against it, and against
the social order characteristic of the past age. In the
overthrow of ecclesiasticism, the fleshly-minded tares,
<q>Edomites</q> and the classes mentioned, will turn on the
<pb n='541'/><anchor id='Pg541'/>
clergy and laity of the churches, as well as upon the Lord's
spirit-begotten children&mdash;upon any remaining to profess
Christianity, whether through adherence to the church systems
or through consecration to God&mdash;and will slaughter
them by thousands.
</p>

<p>
35:6. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore, as I live, saith the Lord God, I will prepare
thee unto blood, and blood shall pursue thee; since
thou hast not hated blood, even blood shall pursue thee.</hi>&mdash;In
gatherings of Socialists, there is no end to the differences
of opinion as to what Socialism is and how it is to be
worked out in practice. This factional division contains
the seeds of the destruction of the short-lived governmental
system of Socialism, under whatever name, for a bloody
end. They courted revolution and shall receive of the same.
</p>

<p>
35:7. <hi rend='sans'>Thus will I make mount Seir most desolate, and
cut off from it him that passeth out and him that returneth.</hi>&mdash;Thus
will God cause the brief Socialistic phase of the
Time of Trouble to become <q>most desolate.</q> Not one person
connected with it shall escape the universal anarchy,
the last and worst phase of the tribulation.
</p>

<p>
35:8. <hi rend='sans'>And I will fill his mountains with his slain men;
in thy hills, and in thy valleys, and in all thy rivers, shall
they fall that are slain with the sword.</hi>&mdash;The Socialistic,
labor-ridden nations (mountains), shall be filled with the
slain; among the upper classes of socialism, and among the
more insignificant people (valleys) and in connection with
all their channels of Socialistic truth (rivers), the people
of that order of things shall be slain. In a sense the Sword
of the Spirit, will slay them; it foretells their destruction.
</p>

<p>
35:9. <hi rend='sans'>I will make thee perpetual desolations, and thy
cities shall not return; and ye shall know that I am the
Lord.</hi>&mdash;The Socialistic state shall be utterly destroyed, and
its various forms of government (cities) go to oblivion.
</p>

<p>
35:10. <hi rend='sans'>Because thou hast said, These two nations and
these two countries shall be mine, and we will possess it;
whereas the Lord was there.</hi>&mdash;The then non-religious Socialists,
laborites, etc., will say: <q>These two systems (nations),
Catholic and Protestant, and the condition of things
characteristic of them, shall come under the sway of Socialism,
and we Socialists, etc., shall rule over and control
them</q>, whereas they will overlook the all-important fact
that God has been among these people, and they were
called God's people.&mdash;<q>The Lord was there.</q>
</p>

<p>
35:11. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore, as I live, saith the Lord God, I will
even do according to thine anger, and according to thine
envy, which thou hast used out of thy hatred against them;
and I will make Myself known among them, when I have
judged thee.</hi>&mdash;Therefore as the Socialists, etc., will turn
<pb n='542'/><anchor id='Pg542'/>
upon ecclesiasticism and Christianity in anger and fury
and with hateful envy, so God will do to the Socialistic
laborite order of things. As they aid in smiting down
Christianity, so will the anarchists smite them down.
</p>

<p>
35:12. <hi rend='sans'>And thou shalt know that I am the Lord, and
that I have heard all thy blasphemies, which thou hast
spoken against the mountains of Israel, saying, They are
laid desolate, they are given us to consume.</hi>&mdash;The laborites,
etc., will learn that God rules in the affairs of men, and
that the Almighty will pay attention to their utterances
against the nations (mountains) of Christendom (Israel),
when, after ecclesiasticism's fall, the laborites shall say,
<q>The nations have been desolated, and are given to us
working people to divide up for ourselves.</q>
</p>

<p>
35:13. <hi rend='sans'>Thus with your mouth ye have boasted against
Me, and have multiplied your words against Me: I have
heard them.</hi>&mdash;The Socialistic and kindred movements, while
speaking savagely against capitalism, and covertly against
Christianity, have in reality been speaking against an order
permitted by God, and in which God was&mdash;in the indwelling
of His Holy Spirit, in such true Christians as were
in the systems. In expressing the determination to lead
the world out of the darkness of evil economic, social and
political conditions, they unwittingly boast against God by
presuming to perform what God previously planned to be
done by His faithful Church, and which by any lesser
agency is absolutely impossible of accomplishment, God
will not pass by unnoticed the words of Socialists, syndicalists,
laborites, etc. He will hear them, and remember
them for just recompense.
</p>

<p>
35:14. <hi rend='sans'>Thus saith the Lord God; When the whole earth
rejoiceth, I will make thee desolate.</hi>&mdash;When the Times of
Restitution of all things come, one of the things not to be
restored is the Socialist, laborite movement. When all
society rejoices in the new order of things ordained of
God, the Socialistic state will have been utterly and forever
desolated.
</p>

<p>
35:15. <hi rend='sans'>As thou didst rejoice at the inheritance of the
house of Israel, because it was desolate, so will I do onto
thee; thou shalt be desolate, O mount Seir, and all Idumea,
even all of it: and they shall know that I am the Lord.</hi>&mdash;As
the fleshly-minded apostates from Christianity, siding
with the radicals and revolutionaries, will rejoice at the
inheritance of desolation that will be Christendom's after
1918, so will God do to the successful revolutionary movement;
it shall be utterly desolated, <q>even all of it.</q> Not
one vestige of it shall survive the ravages of world-wide all-embracing
anarchy, in the fall of 1920. (Rev. 11:7-13)
</p>

</div>

<pb n='543'/><anchor id='Pg543'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 36&mdash;Christendom's Early Restoration</head>

<p>
36:1. <hi rend='sans'>Also, thou son of man, prophesy unto the mountains
of Israel, and say, Ye mountains of Israel, hear the
Word of the Lord.</hi>&mdash;In Chapter 6 is described the iniquities
of the nations of Christendom and their doom. Chapter
36 describes the rejoicing of the non-Christian elements
over her fall, and God's jealous anger against them. It
foretells the early re-peopling of the nations of Christendom,
their conversion to true Christianity, and the reason
for God's action in behalf of the nations just previously
destroyed. Taken literally, it foretells the same good future
for His chosen but long-chastised people, the Jews.
This is the message to the nations (mountains) of Christendom,
as the Word of Jehovah concerning them.
</p>

<p>
36:2. <hi rend='sans'>Thus saith the Lord God; Because the enemy hath
said against you, Aha, even the ancient high places are ours
in possession.</hi>&mdash;Because the revolutionists, who shall overthrow
the nations of Christendom, shall say against them,
<q>Aha, even the oldest and greatest nations of Christendom
are under the control of us revolutionists, Socialists and
laborites.</q>
</p>

<p>
36:3. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore prophesy and say, Thus saith the Lord
God; Because they have made you desolate, and swallowed
you up on every side, that ye might be a possession unto
the residue of the heathen, and ye are taken up in the lips
of talkers, and are an infamy of the people.</hi>&mdash;Thus saith
Jehovah God to the nations of Christendom: Because the
revolutionists shall have justly made you desolate and overrun
you in every direction, so that you might be ruled over
by pagan, fleshly-minded, infidel, revolutionary rulers, and
because you shall be the subject of flippant discussion
among the revolutionaries, and through your fall become
infamous among all the heathen peoples of the world, in
Europe, America and elsewhere.&mdash;Lam. 2:15, 16.
</p>

<p>
36:4. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore, ye mountains of Israel, hear the Word
of the Lord God; Thus saith the Lord God to the mountains
and to the hills, to the rivers and to the valleys, to
the desolate wastes and to the cities that are forsaken,
which became a prey and derision to the residue of the
heathen that are round about.</hi>&mdash;Therefore, ye nations of
Christendom, thus saith Jehovah to the nations, great and
<pb n='544'/><anchor id='Pg544'/>
small, to the religious denominations, to the lowly members
of society, to the masses wasted and desolated by
war and revolution, to the governments, local and national
that shall be abandoned, which shall become the victims of
the Socialists, laborites and other revolutionists, who shall
hold you in derision for your fall from eminence to desolation.
</p>

<p>
36:5. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore thus saith the Lord God; Surely in the
fire of My jealousy have I spoken against the residue of
the heathen, and against all Idumea, which have appointed
My land into their possessions with the joy of all their
heart, with despiteful minds, to cast it out for a prey.</hi>&mdash;Therefore,
saith God, surely I am jealous over the reflections
they cast upon Me, and at the mouths of many prophets
have I foretold the destruction by anarchy of the
rest of those who falsely profess My name and then help to
desolate Christendom&mdash;the <q>Christian</q> infidels and all the
former fleshly-minded Christians (Idumeans) who shall
have presumed, with malicious joy, to overthrow the order
of things which bears My name&mdash;Christendom!
</p>

<p>
36:6. <hi rend='sans'>Prophesy therefore concerning the land of Israel,
and say unto the mountains and to the hills, to the rivers
and to the valleys, Thus saith the Lord God; Behold I have
spoken in My jealousy and in My fury, because ye have
borne the shame of the heathen.</hi>&mdash;O nations of fallen Christendom,
My people, because you shall have borne shame
and reproach from the ungodly revolutionists, I will bring
My jealous fury to bear upon your destroyers.
</p>

<p>
36:7. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore thus saith the Lord God; I have lifted
up Mine hand, Surely the heathen that are about you, they
shall bear their shame.</hi>&mdash;Jehovah has sworn (lifted the
hand) that the Socialists, laborites, etc., shall bear a similar
shame and reproach, when their short-lived order of
things has in turn been desolated by the anarchists.
</p>

<p>
36:8. <hi rend='sans'>But ye, O mountains of Israel, ye shall shoot forth
your branches, and yield your fruit to My people of Israel;
for they are at hand to come.</hi>&mdash;A branch signifies a person
born from another; as, Christ was a Branch of David. Here
the branches shooting forth from the mountains are the
people of Christendom, slain in revolutions and anarchy,
springing forth, rising from the dead, to people Christendom
again. But you, O nations, of Christendom, your dead
shall rise up from their sleep in the dust of the earth, to
the earthly restitution&mdash;resurrection; you shall yield proper
fruitage as the truly Christian people of Christendom; for
they are close at hand to come back in the dust of the
earth, in the mire of trenches, fortresses and battle fields.
They sleep in death, ready to come, for <q>All that are in
<pb n='545'/><anchor id='Pg545'/>
their graves shall hear the voice of the Son of God, and
shall come forth</q> to resurrection.&mdash;John 5:28, 29.
</p>

<p>
36:9. <hi rend='sans'>For, behold, I am for you, and I will turn unto you,
and ye shall be tilled and sown.</hi>&mdash;Now that the Times of
Restitution are at the door, God will be for them and will
turn his favor unto them, and they shall be cultivated by
truly Christian preachers commissioned by the resurrected
Ancient Worthies at Jerusalem, and sown with the seed
of the true Gospel of the Kingdom of restitution and blessing
for all people.
</p>

<p>
36:10. <hi rend='sans'>And I will multiply men upon you, all the house
of Israel, even all of it; and the cities shall be inhabited,
and the wastes shall be builded.</hi>&mdash;The dead, fallen by the
sword of war, revolution and anarchy, shall come forth
from their graves to inhabit the earth. Thus, as they multiplied
the dead, will God multiply the living, to the number
of all the dead of Christendom, even every one of them;
they shall become in His sight, not dead in trespasses
and sins, but living, true-blue, manly men for the Christ
of divine love. The governments (cities) shall be reestablished;
and commerce, transportation, industry and art,
wasted by the Time of Trouble, shall be built up again,
upon the foundation of the wholly righteous principles of
the New Era.
</p>

<p>
36:11. <hi rend='sans'>And I will multiply upon you man and beast; and
they shall increase and bring fruit; and I will settle you
after your old estates, and will do better unto you than at
your beginnings: and ye shall know that I am the Lord.</hi>&mdash;God
will multiply useful workers in industries, and the invention
of labor-saving machinery&mdash;the beasts of burden and
of the productive arts and trades. They shall increase in
numbers and in service to mankind, and shall multiply the
productivity of the workers, bringing forth with the busy,
happy hum of industry, plenty for all, fruitage abundant
for the needs of humanity. God will settle them, establish
them in permanent conditions, and will do for them far better
than He could do in the former days of Christendom,
when the operation of His Spirit energizing mind and
spirit in invention, art, industry, commerce and religion,
was hindered by apostasy of clergy and rulers. Men shall
learn by happy experience how good is Jehovah and how
truly He is love, and not the fire-god, eternal-torment Molech,
whom they ignorantly worshipped, thinking they did
Jehovah service.
</p>

<p>
36:12. <hi rend='sans'>Yea, I will cause men to walk upon you, even My
people Israel; and they shall possess thee, and thou shalt
be their inheritance, and thou shalt no more henceforth
bereave them of men.</hi>&mdash;God will cause men, perfected by
<pb n='546'/><anchor id='Pg546'/>
processes of restitution and resurrection, to live in the nations
of resurrected Christendom. Men of this highly exalted
type shall possess Christendom, when Christ's Kingdom
shall be inherited by the kingly men for whom it was
prepared from the foundations of the earth. Never more
shall the nations of Christendom bereave themselves of
men, as they have done in centuries of oppression, misrule
and persecution, and especially in the Time of Trouble.
</p>

<p>
36:13. <hi rend='sans'>Thus saith the Lord God; Because they say unto
you, Thou land devourest up men, and hast bereaved thy
nations.</hi>&mdash;Because the infidel revolutionists will throw at
Christendom the taunt, <q>Your social order, economic, political
and religious, eats up, destroys men, in industry,
persecution, war, and revolution, and bereaves the nations
of their best men.</q>
</p>

<p>
36:14. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore thou shalt devour men no more, neither
bereave thy nations any more, saith the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;Never
shall this be any more, says God.
</p>

<p>
36:15. <hi rend='sans'>Neither will I cause men to hear in thee the
shame of the heathen any more, neither shalt thou bear
the reproach of the people any more, neither shalt thou
cause thy nations to fall any more, saith the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;Neither
will God permit men to hear the infidel peoples
put Christendom to shame, nor to heap reproach upon
her; for Christendom shall be no more a reproach among
the heathen, nor shall she cause her nations to fall again.
</p>

<p>
36:16, 17. <hi rend='sans'>Moreover the Word of the Lord came unto me,
saying, Son of man, when the house of Israel dwelt in their
own land, they defiled it by their own way and by their doings:
their way was before Me as the uncleanness of a
removed woman.</hi>&mdash;While ecclesiasticism and its adherents
control Christendom, they defile it spiritually by their traditions,
doctrines and actions. Their spiritual condition is
before God as a church polluted, unclean spiritually, unfit
to touch, which ought to be <q>cut off from social privileges
and her citizenship among God's people put in abeyance,</q>
as long as the spiritually unclean condition lasts, an uncleanness
which may be removed only by a liberal application
of <q>the waters of separation</q> (Lev. 15:19-31)&mdash;the
cleansing reformation of the pure, unadulterated, fearlessly
preached and applied Word of God, <q>the water of the
Word.</q>&mdash;Eph. 5:26.
</p>

<p>
36:18. <hi rend='sans'>Wherefore I poured My fury upon them for the
blood that they had shed upon the land, and for their idols
wherewith they had polluted it.</hi>&mdash;The penalty for wilful
violation of the Hebraic precepts regarding uncleanness
was the final cutting off of the culprit from the Lord's people.
Wherefore God shall pour out upon ecclesiasticism
<pb n='547'/><anchor id='Pg547'/>
His fury in war, revolution, and anarchy, for the lives&mdash;physical
and religious&mdash;taken throughout the lengths and
breadths of human society, and for the idolatrous worship
of Molech, the eternal-torment God, and of Baal, the god
of adulterous church-state union, wherewith she has polluted
Christendom.
</p>

<p>
36:19. <hi rend='sans'>And I scattered them among the heathen, and
they were dispersed through the countries: according to
their way and according to their doings I judged them.</hi>&mdash;God
will scatter the church adherents among the revolutionists,
and disperse them throughout a variety of infidel,
Socialistic, laborite and other like conditions, judging the
ecclesiastics according to their apostasy.
</p>

<p>
36:20. <hi rend='sans'>And when they entered unto the heathen, whither
they went, they profaned My holy name, when they said to
them, These are the people of the Lord, and are gone forth
out of His land.</hi>&mdash;Wherever these fleshly-minded Christians
shall be scattered, they will blaspheme God's holy
name, with the reproach that though they had claimed to
be Jehovah's people, God had been unable to safeguard
them and they had abandoned all pretense of being Christians.
</p>

<p>
36:21. <hi rend='sans'>But I had pity for Mine holy name, which the
house of Israel had profaned among the heathen, whither
they went.</hi>&mdash;But God will have regard for the prestige of
His reputation for justice, power, love and wisdom, which
the apostate of Christendom shall impugn during the revolutionary
order of things.
</p>

<p>
36:22. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore say unto the house of Israel, Thus
saith the Lord God; I do not this for your sakes, O house of
Israel, but for Mine holy name's sake, which ye have profaned
among the heathen, whither ye went.</hi>&mdash;Therefore
Jehovah says that what He is about to do, He will not do
for their sakes, for they deserve nothing at His hand but
the judgments justly visited upon them; but that He will
do it for His holy name's reputation, which they have persistently
misrepresented and blasphemed.
</p>

<p>
36:23. <hi rend='sans'>And I will sanctify My great name, which was
profaned among the heathen, which ye have profaned in
the midst of them; and the heathen shall know that I am
the Lord, saith the Lord God, when I shall be sanctified in
you before their eyes.</hi>&mdash;God will make His name sacred,
and forever hallowed, among the pagan peoples, the name
which apostate Christians have profaned and defamed
among them; and God will make the infidel peoples to
<pb n='548'/><anchor id='Pg548'/>
know of a certainty that He is the all-wise, just, loving
and almighty Jehovah, when He finally converts all such to
true Christianity.
</p>

<p>
36:24. <hi rend='sans'>For I will take you from among the heathen, and
gather you out of all countries, and will bring you into your
own land.</hi>&mdash;God will save His professed people from the
faithless, unbelieving condition of the revolutionists and
the professedly pagan peoples, and will gather them out of
all the evil conditions into which they shall fall, into a condition
of genuine conversion and consecration to Himself.
How much like God! all will exclaim, who know Jehovah.
What an example does the Father set to His children, the
sons of God!&mdash;Eph. 5:1; Z. '92-63.
</p>

<p>
36:25. <hi rend='sans'>Then will I sprinkle clean water upon you, and
ye shall be clean: from all your filthiness, and from all
your idols, will I cleanse you.</hi>&mdash;Then will Jehovah wash
His apostate people with the pure, unpolluted water of the
Word of Truth; and from all their filthiness of flesh and
spirit, of life and of doctrine, and from their idolatry of
Molech and of Baal, will He cleanse them; and they shall
be clean.&mdash;A. 333; Z. '92-64.
</p>

<p>
36:26. <hi rend='sans'>A new heart also will I give you, and a new spirit
will I put within you; and I will take away the stony heart
out of your flesh, and I will give you a heart of flesh.</hi>&mdash;God
judges the thoughts and intents of the heart, and He
will give His professed people a pure heart to serve Him
and to love Him with fullness of consecration. He will take
away from them the stony heart (Jer. 31:33), wherewith
for sake of earthly emoluments and honor of men, they
have resisted Him and hardened their consciences against
His Truth. He will put within them a new spirit which they
have not known&mdash;the spirit of willing service and obedience
to Jehovah, the spirit of the truth, the spirit of wisdom,
of courage, of a sound mind, and of Divine love.&mdash;2
Tim. 1:7; Z. '99-187; A. 310; Z. '03-171.
</p>

<p>
36:27. <hi rend='sans'>And I will put My Spirit within you, and cause
you to walk in My statutes, and ye shall keep My judgments,
and do them.</hi>&mdash;God will give them His Holy Spirit
and cause them to walk in His <q>royal law of love</q> (Jas.
2:8), so that they shall keep that law and do it&mdash;Z. '99-138.
</p>

<p>
36:28. <hi rend='sans'>And ye shall dwell in the land that I gave to your
fathers; and ye shall be My people, and I will be your God.</hi>&mdash;And
they shall abide in the condition of Divine favor
that the fathers walked in, and truly be God's people; and
Jehovah, the God of love&mdash;not Molech, nor Baal&mdash;shall be
their God.
</p>

<p>
36:29. <hi rend='sans'>I will also save you from all your uncleanness:
and I will call for the corn, and will increase it, and lay
<pb n='549'/><anchor id='Pg549'/>
no famine upon you.</hi>&mdash;God will save the people now constituting
His professed, but apostate church, from all their
spiritual and fleshly uncleanness. He will call for the
wheat, the bread of life, the Word of God, and will give
them to feed on this good Word, and will permit no more
famine of the Word of God among them.
</p>

<p>
36:30. <hi rend='sans'>And I will multiply the fruit of the tree, and the
increase of the field, that ye shall receive no more reproach
of famine among the heathen.</hi>&mdash;God will multiply the fruits
of righteousness, and cause the new social order to increase
its character fruitage, so that Christians shall receive
no more from the heathen the reproach that there is
among them a famine of God's Word, and that they fail to
practise what they profess.&mdash;Amos. 8:11.
</p>

<p>
36:31. <hi rend='sans'>Then shall ye remember your own evil ways, and
your doings that were not good, and shall loathe yourselves
in your own sight for your iniquities and for your abominations.</hi>&mdash;Then,
in the abundance of the wonderful and undeserved
goodness and love of God, God's professed people
shall remember their former evil doctrines, that misrepresented
His holy character, and their doings that were not
good, especially their grasping for world power and their
persecution of the sons of God. Then they shall loathe
themselves for their iniquitous doctrines and for their sectarian
abominations.
</p>

<p>
36:32. <hi rend='sans'>Not for your own sakes do I this, saith the Lord
God, be it known unto you: be ashamed and confounded for
your own ways, O house of Israel.</hi>&mdash;Be it known, in advance,
that Jehovah will do these good things, not for their
sakes in any sense; for they merit far different treatment
at His hands. They shall be ashamed and utterly confounded
at His goodness. Thus, with goodness and with
love overflowing will God recompense the evil they have
done Him and His true children.
</p>

<p>
36:33. <hi rend='sans'>Thus saith the Lord God; in the day that I shall
have cleansed you from all your iniquities I will also cause
you to dwell in the cities, and the wastes shall be builded.</hi>&mdash;In
the 1,000-year day, the Millennium, the <q>Times of Restitution
of all things</q> (Acts 3:19-21), when God shall have
cleansed those who are now His professed people from
their iniquities, He will cause them to abide in new governments
of the nations and cities of Christendom (Lu.
19:17), whose wasted arts, manufactures, industries,
transportation and commerce shall be built up again.
</p>

<p>
36:34. <hi rend='sans'>And the desolate land shall be tilled, whereas it
lay desolate in the sight of all that passed by.</hi>&mdash;Christendom,
utterly desolated in war, revolution and anarchy, and
lying desolate in the sight of the whole world, shall be cultivated
<pb n='550'/><anchor id='Pg550'/>
in the arts, sciences, trades and professions, and
especially with the true Gospel of the Kingdom.
</p>

<p>
36:35. <hi rend='sans'>And they shall say, This land that was desolate
is become like the garden of Eden; and the waste and
desolate and ruined cities are become fenced, and are inhabited.</hi>&mdash;And
the infidel peoples shall exclaim, <q>Christendom
that was utterly desolated, has become like the Garden
of Eden!</q> For governments, national, city, and local, which
were wasted, desolated and ruined, have been replaced by
better and permanent (fenced) arrangements brought about
by the mighty power of Jehovah's Love.
</p>

<p>
36:36. <hi rend='sans'>Then the heathen that are left round about you
shall know that I the Lord build the ruined places, and
plant that that was desolate: I the Lord have spoken it,
and I will do it.</hi>&mdash;Then the unbelieving peoples will come
to the realization that the One that shall rebuild ruined
Christendom and plant the desolate people with the seed
of the glad gospel of the Kingdom is Jehovah. Jehovah has
spoken it, and will bring it to pass.
</p>

<p>
36:37. <hi rend='sans'>Thus saith the Lord God; I will yet for this be
inquired of by the house of Israel, to do it for them; I will
increase them with men like a flock.</hi>&mdash;God will yet be supplicated
by desolated Christendom to do this for them.
Then, in answer to their prayers, He will, by awakenings
from the dead, increase their numbers with men in multitudes.
</p>

<p>
36:38. <hi rend='sans'>As the holy flock, as the flock of Jerusalem in her
solemn feasts; so shall the waste cities be filled with flocks
of men: and they shall know that I am the Lord.</hi>&mdash;Like as
vast flocks of sheep and cattle were gathered for sacrifice
at the annual feasts at Jerusalem, so shall the devastated
nations of Christendom be filled with great crowds of consecrated,
holy men, each devoted as a willing thank offering
forever to live for God. And they shall know, when
God has brought them back from the dead, that He is Jehovah,
a God of infinite Justice, Power, Love and Wisdom.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<quote rend='display'>

<lg>
<l>Hail to the brightness of Zion's glad morning!</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>Joy to the lands that in darkness have lain!</l>
<l>Hushed be the accents of sorrow and mourning!</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>Zion, in triumph, begins her glad reign.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>See the dead risen from land and from ocean;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>Praise to Jehovah ascending on High;</l>
<l>Fall'n are the engines of war and commotion;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>Shouts of salvation are rending the sky.</l>
</lg>

</quote>

</div>

<pb n='551'/><anchor id='Pg551'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 37&mdash;The Valley Of Dry Bones</head>

<p>
37:1. <hi rend='sans'>The hand of the Lord was upon me, and carried
me out in the Spirit of the Lord, and set me down in the
midst of the valley which was full of bones.</hi>&mdash;Chapter 37:1-14
has a fourfold application: (1) to the Valley of Jehoshaphat,
the Adamic death, into which the Hebrew nation
has gone; (2) to the captivity of the Hebrews in literal
Babylonia; (3) the captivity of the Hebrews in Mystic
Babylon, Christendom; and (4) the dead condition of the
hopes of Christendom in and after the Time of Trouble. It
is because the Jews were types of the Christians that the
blessed fulfilment of this prophecy applies with peculiar
force to Christendom in and after the Time of Trouble.
The power (hand) of Jehovah was upon Ezekiel to enable
him to see and expound this vision for the benefit of the
Hebrews and their dead hopes in captivity (2) in literal
Babylon, (3) in Mystic Babylon (Christendom) and (1)
in the Adamic death. (Z. '99-190; '01-358.) The power of
God is now upon His people to understand the application
of the vision of dry bones as pertaining to the hopes of
(4) the people of Christendom, who, though believers in
God, have not the Holy Spirit to illuminate their mental
vision, and who will find themselves in the depths (valley)
of despair in and after the Time of Trouble.
</p>

<p>
The condition of the withered hopes of Christendom in
the Time of Trouble and death is pictured by the Valley of
Jehoshaphat (Joel 3:2, 9-14): <q>I will gather all nations, and
will bring them down into the Valley of Jehoshaphat [of
judgment and death], and will plead [in war, revolution
and anarchy] with them there for My people and My heritage
Israel [the true Church] whom they have scattered
among the nations, and parted My land [into several hundred
denominations]. Proclaim ye this among the nations:
Prepare war, wake up the mighty men, let all the
men of war draw near; let them come up; beat your plowshares
into swords, and your pruning hooks into spears; let
the weak [Belgium, etc.] say, I am strong. Assemble yourselves,
and come, all ye heathen, and gather yourselves together
round about; thither cause thy mighty ones [the
Little Flock, mighty in the power of the Lord] to come
down, O Lord. Let the heathen [in Christendom, and out]
<pb n='552'/><anchor id='Pg552'/>
be wakened, and come up to the Valley of Jehoshaphat: for
there will I sit to judge all the heathen round about. Put
ye in the sickle, for the harvest [of the vine of the earth,
(Rev. 14:19) Christendom] is ripe; come, get you down;
for the press is full, the fats overflow; for their wickedness
is great. Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision
[for or against God and His Word] for the Day [of
vengeance] of the Lord is near in the valley of decision.</q>&mdash;Joel
3:2, 9-15.
</p>

<p>
Vast will be the slaughter, complete the devastation,
heart-rending the ruin and the desolation of the hopes
and aspirations of Christendom in the dark and gloomy
valley of the Day of Vengeance of Jehovah. It will indeed
be a valley&mdash;a cast down, humbled, lowly condition, in
which the people of proud Christendom will suddenly find
themselves, a condition full of the memories of ruined
hopes, (bones) (Mal. 4:1.) The valley is full of dried-up
hopes (bones): (1) the twelve tribes of Israel in death;
(2, 3) the Hebrews in captivity to literal and mystical
Babylon; and (4) the hopes of Christendom.
</p>

<p>
37:2. <hi rend='sans'>And caused me to pass by them round about: and
behold, there were very many in the open valley; and lo,
they were very dry.</hi>&mdash;The hopes of the Hebrews, held out
to them in Scripture, were very many, but until the regathering
out of literal and mystical Babylon, and from the
dead, were and shall be lifeless. Pastor Russell, in Volume
IV of <hi rend='italic'>Studies in the Scriptures</hi>, compassed the entire range
of the afflictions and desolated hopes of mankind in war,
revolution and anarchy of the great Time of Trouble.
</p>

<p>
37:3. <hi rend='sans'>And he said unto me, Son of man, can these bones
live! And I answered, O Lord God, Thou knowest.</hi>&mdash;<q>Is
there any hope for the scattered people of Israel, that they
will ever be restored as a nation? Can the good hopes of
Christendom, ruined by war, revolution and anarchy, be
revived?</q> <q>O Jehovah God, Thou knowest and hast foretold
the answer by the mouths of Prophets and Apostles,
and Thine own Son!</q>
</p>

<p>
37:4. <hi rend='sans'>Again He said unto me, Prophesy upon these bones,
and say unto them, O ye dry bones, hear the Word of the
Lord.</hi>&mdash;And God says about the Scriptural hopes of both
Jews and of Christendom, whose fall, ignominy and captivity
in literal Babylon, in mystic Babylon, in the Adamic
death and in the Time of Trouble have caused, and will
cause, so great sufferings and so many tears. <q>Hear the
good Word of Jehovah concerning thy ruined hopes.</q>
</p>

<p>
37:5. <hi rend='sans'>Thus saith the Lord God unto these bones; Behold,
I will cause breath to enter into you, and ye shall
live.</hi>&mdash;Thus saith Jehovah God about the hopes of Christendom:
<pb n='553'/><anchor id='Pg553'/>
Behold, in the blessed Times of Restitution, the
time for His great love for men to be revealed, He shall
cause the people that are left among the Hebrews and in
Christendom to talk and pray about their good hopes for
the uplift of themselves and all the world to better, higher
things. And their hopes shall live again; for God will
cause the spirit of life, life-energy, to enter into their hopes
and into their dead&mdash;those captive in the Adamic death
and in the ruin of the great tribulation.&mdash;E. <hi rend='italic'>341</hi>, 316.
</p>

<p>
37:6. <hi rend='sans'>And I will lay sinews upon you, and will bring up
flesh upon you, and cover you with skin, and put breath in
you, and ye shall live; and ye shall know that I am the
Lord.</hi>&mdash;God will make their hopes strong; for His Word
encourages their realization; and He gives them power,
form and substance and protection, and will finally give
them vitality, and they shall live, shall become a bright
and vital reality. Then with thanksgiving they shall know
Him truly as Jehovah.&mdash;E. <hi rend='italic'>341</hi>, 316.
</p>

<p>
37:7. <hi rend='sans'>So I prophesied as I was commanded: and as I
prophesied, there was a noise, and behold a shaking, and
the bones came together, bone to his bone.</hi>&mdash;While Ezekiel
was speaking there began <q>a shaking</q>&mdash;the commotion incident
to the fall of Babylon and the transfer of the empire
to the Medes and Persians, typifying the coming Time of
Trouble. And while Pastor Russell was preaching there
began&mdash;in 1914&mdash;the shaking of Christendom, in wars, revolutions
and anarchy, preparatory to the transfer of the
rulership from Mystic Babylon, Christendom, to the two-phase,
spiritual and natural, Kingdom of God; also the
Zionistic hopes of the Jews began to assume definite, connected
and Scriptural form. In due time, after the hopes
of Christendom shall have been utterly ruined in the
trouble, there will be <q>a noise,</q> as of the rushing wind of a
second Pentecostal outpouring of the Holy Spirit <q>upon all
flesh.</q> It will be upon all Christendom, where men will be
awaiting it with prayer and supplication. And behold! all
Christendom will be shaken with emotion and with a revival
of hope; and all the good hopes of Christendom,
whose realization hitherto had been vague and disconnected,
will be seen in their proper and Divinely appointed
relation (bone to his bone).&mdash;Z. '99-191.
</p>

<p>
37:8. <hi rend='sans'>And when I beheld, lo, the sinews and the flesh
came up upon them, and the skin covered them above:
but there was no breath in them.</hi>&mdash;As a result of Ezekiel's
prophesying among the Hebrews captive in Babylon, hope
grew strong and positive, and the protection of Jehovah
(skin) was seen to be upon it, but yet there was no vitality
to it. The time was not ripe for the fruition of hope.
<pb n='554'/><anchor id='Pg554'/>
Pastor Russell, too, preached to the Jews about their Zionist
hopes, and pointed them to the Hebrew Bible to understand
the proper fulfillment of their hopes; and while he
was preaching Zionism grew into a strong movement.
There is a due time also for Christendom's hopes to be
strengthened by the books of Pastor Russell in millions of
homes throughout Christendom. The surviving people of
Christendom will read the <hi rend='italic'>Studies in the Scriptures</hi> during
and after the time of the ruination of their hopes. But
even then something will be lacking&mdash;the Spirit, power, to
cause the fulfillment of hope.&mdash;E. <hi rend='italic'>341</hi>, 316.
</p>

<p>
37:9. <hi rend='sans'>Then said He unto me, Prophesy unto the wind,
prophesy, son of man, and say to the wind, Thus saith the
Lord God; Come from the four winds, O breath, and
breathe upon these slain, that they may live.</hi>&mdash;Ezekiel was
commissioned to say, as the Word of God Himself, concerning
the operation of the Holy Spirit (wind, <foreign lang='he' rend='italic'>ruach</foreign>) or
power of God, that the whole power (four winds) of God
as concerned the Hebrew nation in captivity in literal
Babylon should be exercised to cause the revival of their
national and Messianic hopes. <q>The words that I speak,
they are Spirit.</q> The whole Word of God (four winds, the
whole Spirit) foretold the regathering of the willing and
obedient of the Hebrews from Babylon to Jerusalem, after
seventy years' captivity. Pastor Russell, as Ezekiel's antitype,
was commissioned to say to the Hebrews, scattered
throughout the world in captivity in Mystic Babylon, Christendom,
that the whole Word of God pointed to two great
blessings: (1) the revival of their Zionist hope and its
realization in the regathering of many Hebrews to Jerusalem,
and the founding there of the world-wide Hebrew
dominion over the whole world, into which should be gathered,
out of Mystic Babylon, all the Hebrews in the world,
wherever they might remain; and (2) the regathering of
the Hebrews of all ages from the captivity of death&mdash;the
tomb&mdash;to live on earth again in the earthly phase of the
Kingdom of God, under the invisible spiritual dominion of
Christ, Head and Body, and under the visible earthly
rulership of the resurrected Ancient Worthies. Beginning
in October, 1910, Pastor Russell called the attention of
Hebrews by thousands, throughout the world, to the fact
that the whole Old Testament foretold this as the legitimate
aspiration of the Hebrews. For the Christian people
of the world Pastor Russell has a similar message:
</p>

<p>
(1) For believing Christians having the Holy Spirit, he
revived their hopes and pointed out clearly their gathering
out from captivity in Mystic Babylon and in death, unto the
glorious spirit phase of the Kingdom of God. (2) For the
<pb n='555'/><anchor id='Pg555'/>
mass of professing Christians, who through some measure
of unbelief or of unfaithfulness are not begotten of the
Spirit to a change of nature from human to spiritual, He
has a Divine message, which in due time will bring strong
hope and comfort. As the Time of Trouble progresses,
professing Christians by the millions, losing faith, as did
the Apostles when, on the arrest of Christ they all forsook
Him and fled, will forsake Christianity and all profession
of being Christians. They will lose all the hopes they had
as Christians. Then Pastor Russell's message will preach
to Christendom the necessity of receiving the Holy Spirit
in its entirety, in order to realize their hopes; will turn the
people to the whole Truth of the Word of God (the four
Winds, all the Truth), all the witness of the Spirit for
them, that <q>salvation cometh of the Jew</q> (John 4:22), and
that they must connect themselves with the Ancient
Worthies, resurrected and reigning at Jerusalem; for without
these Worthies their hopes must remain inactive&mdash;through
them alone hope can be vitalized. Then Christendom
will pray to God, <q>We submit ourselves wholly to
Thee in heartfelt consecration. Come, O Spirit, all the
Spirit, in the appointed way, and breathe life into our
hopes, that they may live at last!</q>
</p>

<p>
37:10. <hi rend='sans'>So I prophesied as He commanded me, and the breath
came into them, and they lived, and stood up upon
their feet, an exceeding great army.</hi>&mdash;From paying attention
to Ezekiel's message, the Hebrews captive in Babylon
realized their hopes at the end of the seventy years captivity.
As a result of Pastor Russell's teaching, Zionistic
hopes have gained new vitality; and in due time the
Hebrew dead will come forth from the Adamic death in
multitudes. From his teachings to the true Church, captive
in Mystic Babylon, Christendom, the Scriptural hopes
of the Church were clearly seen, and vitalized for those in
Present Truth. From his teachings hope will grow afresh
in the hearts of the survivors of desolated Christendom;
and as a result of their prayers the dead of Christendom
will come forth, an exceeding great army.&mdash;E. <hi rend='italic'>341</hi>, 316.
</p>

<p>
37:11. <hi rend='sans'>Then He said unto me, Son of man, these bones
are the whole house of Israel: behold, they say, Our bones
are dried, and our hope is lost: we are cut off for our parts.</hi>&mdash;The
dried bones represent all the Hebrews, Fleshly
Israel, and all the professing Christians, Spiritual Israel.
As outlined foregoing, they say that their hopes are lost,
and that they are cut off from Divine favors for their evil
course in life.&mdash;Isa. 49:14; Z'99-191.
</p>

<p>
37:12. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore prophesy and say unto them, Thus
saith the Lord God; Behold, O My people, I will open your
<pb n='556'/><anchor id='Pg556'/>
graves, and cause you to come up out of your graves, and
bring you into the land of Israel.</hi>&mdash;The various classes mentioned
were to be brought up from their condition&mdash;dead
as to their hopes&mdash;and brought, the Hebrews into Palestine;
the true Christians, into the Spirit phase of the
Kingdom; and the nominal Christians, into a place of favor
in the earthly phase of the Kingdom.&mdash;Isa. 60:21; Z. '99-196.
</p>

<p>
37:13, 14. <hi rend='sans'>And ye shall know that I am the Lord, when
I have opened your graves, O My people, and brought you
up out of your graves, And shall put My Spirit in you, and
ye shall live, and I shall place you in your own land: then
shall ye know that I the Lord have spoken it, and performed
it, saith the Lord.</hi>&mdash;They shall all know that God
is the Jehovah of infinite Justice, Wisdom, Love and
Power, when the wonderful power of God has thus wrought
in them for their blessing.&mdash;E. <hi rend='italic'>341</hi>, 316; Z. '99-190.
</p>

<p>
37:15. <hi rend='sans'>The Word of the Lord came again unto me, saying.</hi>&mdash;Verses
15-28 recount the separation of the Hebrews
into two distinct kingdoms; Israel, the corrupt ten tribes;
and Judah, the less corrupt two tribes. In antitype it represents
corrupt Catholicism, the larger branch of Christendom,
and Protestantism, the smaller and less corrupt.
</p>

<p>
37:16, 17. <hi rend='sans'>Moreover, thou son of man, take thee one
stick, and write upon it, For Judah, and for the children of
Israel his companions: then take another stick, and write
upon it, For Joseph, the stick of Ephraim, and for all the
house of Israel and his companions: And join them one to
another into one stick; and they shall become one in thine
hand.</hi>&mdash;By the power of God the two were to be made one
nation in the return of the Hebrews from Babylonia, and
again will be made one in their return from Mystic
Babylon, Christendom, to Palestine. Likewise the denominational
divisions of Christian people have been obliterated
among those gathered out of Mystic Babylon into Present
Truth, as they will yet be in the regathering of the dead
of Christendom in the resurrection, and in the unifying
influences that will work among the survivors of Christendom's
trouble. All these are to have as their Prince forever,
the Beloved (David, beloved) of God, The Christ in
glory.
</p>

<p>
37:18. <hi rend='sans'>And when the children of thy people shall speak
unto thee, saying, Wilt Thou not show what Thou meanest
by these?</hi>&mdash;Both Jews and Christians have long inquired
what God has signified by this prophecy.
</p>

<pb n='557'/><anchor id='Pg557'/>

<p>
37:19. <hi rend='sans'>Say unto them, Thus saith the Lord God; Behold
I will take the stick of Joseph, which is in the hand of
Ephraim, and the tribes of Israel his fellows, and will put
them with him, even with the stick of Judah, and make
them one stick, and they shall be one in Mine hand.</hi>&mdash;The
reuniting of the Hebrews and of the divisions of Christians
will be by the power of God, and they shall remain one.
</p>

<p>
37:20. <hi rend='sans'>And the sticks whereon thou writest shall be
in thine hand before their eyes.</hi>&mdash;The uniting of the
Hebrews was apparently due to the prophecy of Ezekiel.
That to come&mdash;of the Hebrews and of the Christians&mdash;will
be in accordance with the teachings of Pastor Russell.
</p>

<p>
37:21, 22. <hi rend='sans'>And say unto them, Thus saith the Lord God;
Behold, I will take the children of Israel from among the
heathen, whither they be gone, and will gather them on
every side, and bring them into their own land: And I
will make them one nation in the land upon the mountains
of Israel; and one king shall be king to them all; and
they shall be no more two nations, neither shall they be
divided into two kingdoms any more at all.</hi>&mdash;In 536 B. C.
God regathered the Natural Israelites into Palestine as
one nation, and will soon regather them out from all the
nations of the world. He will gather true Spiritual Israel
into the Heavenly phase of the Kingdom, where they shall
ever be one people in mind in Christ, no longer separated
as Little Flock, loving Heavenly things, and Great Company,
loving the earthly. He will regather nominal Spiritual
Israel from the dead and from their hopeless earthly
condition, into the earthly phase of the Kingdom, no longer
divided as Catholic and Protestant.&mdash;Jer. 50:4-6.
</p>

<p>
37:23. <hi rend='sans'>Neither shall they defile themselves any more
with their idols, nor with their detestable things, nor with
any of their transgressions; but I will save them out of all
their dwelling places, wherein they have sinned, and will
cleanse them: so shall they be My people, and I will be
their God.</hi>&mdash;God will cleanse them all from everything relating
to this present evil age and will save them out of
their dwelling-places&mdash;the spirit children from their corrupt
bodies; the Great Company from their spiritual bondage;
the nominal Christians from their sects; and the Jews
from their domiciles in all nations; and all classes from
the sleep of death. They shall all be truly God's people;
and Jehovah, Just, Wise, Loving and Powerful, their God.
</p>

<p>
37:24. <hi rend='sans'>And David My servant shall be king over them;
and they shall all have One Shepherd: they shall also walk
<pb n='558'/><anchor id='Pg558'/>
in My judgments, and observe My statutes, and do them.</hi>&mdash;Over
them as King shall be Christ Jesus, the Beloved
Head of His Body the Church, and the whole Beloved
Christ, Head and Body, for all the other classes. Christ
Jesus the Head shall be the Shepherd of the Spirit classes;
and The Christ, Head and Body, the Shepherd and Pastor
of all the others. All classes in Heaven and on earth shall
walk in the royal Law of Love.
</p>

<p>
37:25. <hi rend='sans'>And they shall dwell in the land that I have
given unto Jacob My servant, wherein your fathers have
dwelt; and they shall dwell therein, even they and their
children, and their children's children for ever: and My
servant David shall be their prince for ever.</hi>&mdash;The promise
to Jacob is to be understood as both spiritual and earthly,
a place spiritually typifying a condition. The Jews, living
and resurrected dead, shall dwell forever in Palestine,
given by God to Jacob, wherein their fathers, Abraham,
Isaac and Jacob, dwelt. The Little Flock and the Great
Company will dwell forever in the Heavenly condition,
where their great Father dwells. The nominal Christians
will dwell in the whole earth, wherein their then Father.
The Christ, Head and Body, dwelt in bodies of humiliation
and sacrifice. The Christ shall forever be their King.
</p>

<p>
37:26. <hi rend='sans'>Moreover I will make a covenant of peace with
them; it shall be an everlasting Covenant with them: and
I will place them, and multiply them, and will set My
Sanctuary in the midst of them for evermore.</hi>&mdash;God will
make effective with the Jews the everlasting New Covenant,
guaranteeing eternal earthly blessings to the willing
and obedient; and the nominal professing Christians will
come under the benefits of the Covenant. He will make
effective the complete fulfillment of the Covenant of Grace
for the Church in the spirit phase of the Kingdom. He
will set both classes up in power&mdash;the Church as spiritual
Kings and Priests unto God; and the Jews as the rulers of
the earth. He will multiply their numbers by the resurrection.
He will dwell in the spiritual class, making them
His Sanctuary to the earthly class.
</p>

<p>
37:27. <hi rend='sans'>My tabernacle also shall be with them: yea, I
will be their God, and they shall be My people.</hi>&mdash;God's
abode will be in the spiritual class; and they will be God's
Temple or Dwelling-place, from which the Law of Love
shall proceed for the earthly class.
</p>

<p>
37:28. <hi rend='sans'>And the heathen shall know that I the Lord do
sanctify Israel, when My Sanctuary shall be in the midst
of them for evermore.</hi>&mdash;Then will follow the conversion of
the heathen peoples of the earth&mdash;<q>the residue of men,
even all the Gentiles.</q>&mdash;Acts 15:17.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='559'/><anchor id='Pg559'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 38&mdash;Final Overthrow Of Pride</head>

<p>
38:1, 2. <hi rend='sans'>And the Word of the Lord came unto me, saying,
Son of man, set thy face against Gog, the land of Magog,
the chief prince of Meshech and Tubal, and prophesy
against him.</hi>&mdash;The Truth people, the reformers, are to set
themselves against the proud, lofty rulers (Gog, high,
mountain, D. 554) of the revolutionary republics after the
war and the fall of Christendom, and of the ignorant, degraded
revolutionists. (Magog was Scythia, a rude, ignorant,
degraded people, including the savages of Europe
[D. 556], savage by nature and made doubly so in the most
barbarous wars of history. Meshech, north of Armenia,
and Tubal, south of the Black Sea, and also Spain, represented
the remotest and rudest nations of the world.) The
prophecy is to have a double fulfillment, for it refers also
to the gathering, at the close of the 1,000 years, of Satan,
and the deceivable among restored mankind against the
camp of the saints.&mdash;Rev. 20:7-10.
</p>

<p>
38:3. <hi rend='sans'>And say, Thus saith the Lord God; Behold, I am
against thee, O Gog, the chief prince of Meshech and Tubal.</hi>&mdash;God
will be against the rulers of the worst of earth's
peoples.
</p>

<p>
38:4. <hi rend='sans'>And I will turn thee back, and put hooks into thy
jaws, and I will bring thee forth, and all thine army, horses
and horsemen, all of them clothed with all sorts of armour,
even a great company with bucklers and shields, all of
them handling swords.</hi>&mdash;God will lead them on (Revised
Version) and bring them forth to do this deed, them and
all their multitude, equipped with every conceivable
weapon of destruction.
</p>

<p>
38:5. <hi rend='sans'>Persia, Ethiopia, and Libya with them; all of them
with shield and helmet.</hi>&mdash;The dark peoples of Africa (descendants
of Ham, typical of sinful, degraded peoples),
trained and equipped in the European war.
</p>

<p>
38:6. <hi rend='sans'>Gomer, and all his bands; the house of Togarmah
of the north quarters, and all his bands; and many people
with thee.</hi>&mdash;The remotest peoples of Europe (D. 556) (Gomer
was ancestor of the Celts, Scotch, etc.; Togarmah was
north of Armenia) and their armies, and a multitude with
them; and, a thousand years later, all whose heart attitude
answers this description.
</p>

<pb n='560'/><anchor id='Pg560'/>

<p>
38:7. <hi rend='sans'>Be thou prepared, and prepare for thyself, thou,
and all thy company that are assembled unto thee, and be
thou a guard unto them.</hi>&mdash;The foregoing and their savage
multitudes of revolutionists are to be the vanguard of the
evil host. These people symbolize also those after the
1,000 years whose heart condition will be like the actual
state of these savages.
</p>

<p>
38:8. <hi rend='sans'>After many days thou shalt be visited: in the latter
years thou shalt come into the land that is brought
back from the sword, and is gathered out of many people,
against the mountains of Israel, which have been always
waste: but it is brought forth out of the nations, and they
shall dwell safely all of them.</hi>&mdash;After the career of the
Ezekiel class is terminated in the flesh, the nations of
Europe (and after the thousand years are finished the
hosts of Satan, unbound) shall be called to do their dreadful
work. At the close of the turbulent revolutionary era
Europe shall come against Palestine, then living in a peace
contrasting with their turbulence; and, at the close of the
Millennium Satan shall come against the Millennial order
of things, abounding in holiness and peace.
</p>

<p>
38:9. <hi rend='sans'>Thou shalt ascend and come like a storm, thou
shalt be like a cloud to cover the land, thou, and all thy
bands, and many people with thee.</hi>&mdash;They shall make the
attack in vast numbers.
</p>

<p>
38:10. <hi rend='sans'>Thus saith the Lord God; It shall also come to
pass, that at the same time shall things come into thy
mind, and thou shalt think an evil thought.</hi>&mdash;At the end of
the revolutionary era turbulent Europe and Africa will be
obsessed with an idea full of evil for them and for the
Hebrews; and at the close of the Millennium Satan and
the hosts in sympathy with his deceptions will dream of
seizing the established Kingdom of God.
</p>

<p>
38:11. <hi rend='sans'>And thou shalt say, I will go up to the land of
unwalled villages; I will go to them that are at rest, that
dwell safely, all of them dwelling without walls, and having
neither bars nor gates.</hi>&mdash;They shall say that they will go
up against Palestine, against the Hebrews living in unwonted
peace in a turbulent world.&mdash;D. 553.
</p>

<p>
38:12. <hi rend='sans'>To take a spoil, and to take a prey; to turn thine
hand upon the desolate places that are now inhabited, and
upon the people that are gathered out of the nations, which
have gotten cattle and goods, that dwell in the midst of
the land.</hi>&mdash;They will seek to plunder their property, to turn
their weapons against once desolate Palestine, against the
regathered Hebrews, enjoying some measure of prosperity.
In like manner the hosts of Satan will seek to seize the
restored Kingdom of God, at the close of the 1,000 years.
</p>

<pb n='561'/><anchor id='Pg561'/>

<p>
38:13. <hi rend='sans'>Sheba, and Dedan, and the merchants of Tarshish,
with all the young lions thereof, shall say unto thee, Art
thou come to take a spoil? hast thou gathered thy company
to take a prey? to carry away silver and gold, to take away
cattle and goods, to take a great spoil?</hi>&mdash;The people surrounding
Palestine (D. 556), with their soldiers, will join
in the plunder. After the Millennium all classes not in
heart harmony with <q>the camp of the saints,</q> will seek
to capture the Kingdom, to take captive the power of the
Little Flock and the Great Company (silver and gold), and
the masses of perfect humanity (cattle, etc.).
</p>

<p>
38:14. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore, son of man, prophesy and say unto
Gog, Thus saith the Lord God; In that day when My
people of Israel dwelleth safely, shalt thou not know it?</hi>&mdash;When
God's people, the Hebrews, are living peacefully in
Palestine, the fact will be well known by revolutionary
Europe and Africa. After the Millennium Satan and his
former associates, the apostate clergy of Christendom and
the Hebrew Pharisees, bound for a thousand years, and
loosed for a short time, will behold the prosperity of restored
mankind.
</p>

<p>
38:15. <hi rend='sans'>And thou shalt come from thy place out of the
north parts, thou, and many people with thee, all of them
riding upon horses, a great company, and a mighty army.</hi>&mdash;Europe's
hosts shall come from the countries north (D. 555)
of Palestine with many people, riding on horses, motor cars
and railroad trains, a vast and mighty army. And a thousand
years later, Satan will appear, permitted to come by
the spiritual phase of the Kingdom (the north), with many
new, lying doctrines (horses) to deceive the people.
</p>

<p>
38:16. <hi rend='sans'>And thou shalt come up against My people of
Israel, as a cloud to cover the land; it shall be in the latter
days, and I will bring thee against My land, that the
heathen may know Me, when I shall be sanctified in thee,
O Gog, before their eyes.</hi>&mdash;The revolutionists will come
against the Hebrews in the closing years of the Time of
Trouble, just at the outbreak of anarchy (D. 555). This
invasion will be permitted by God, that the peoples may
know that Jehovah is God, when His mighty power shall
perform a dreadful work upon these wicked peoples, raised
up and set apart (sanctified) for the enhancing of Divine
prestige. It will also be to demonstrate the Divine attributes
that the Satanic hosts will be permitted later to
conspire against <q>the camp of the saints.</q>
</p>

<p>
38:17. <hi rend='sans'>Thus saith the Lord God; Art thou he of whom
I have spoken in old time by My servants the prophets of
Israel, which prophesied in those days many years, that I
would bring thee against them?</hi>&mdash;Jehovah declares that
<pb n='562'/><anchor id='Pg562'/>
these evil multitudes, who will shortly organize a crusade
against the Jews, will be the ones of whom, thousands of
years before, the Hebrew Prophets wrote.
</p>

<p>
38:18. <hi rend='sans'>And it shall come to pass at the same time when
Gog shall come against the land of Israel, saith the Lord
God, that My fury shall come up in My face.</hi>&mdash;The Divine
wrath of furious retribution will be against these classes.
</p>

<p>
38:19. <hi rend='sans'>For in My jealousy and in the fire of My wrath
have I spoken, Surely In that day there shall be a great
shaking in the land of Israel.</hi>&mdash;In jealous love for His beloved
people and in jealous destructive (fire) wrath against
their assailants (D. 527) has God foretold a world-shaking
holocaust of the hosts of evil in the land of Palestine, and
a thousand years later of the minions of the Devil.
</p>

<p>
38:20. <hi rend='sans'>So that the fishes of the sea, and the fowls of the
heaven, and the beasts of the field, and all creeping things
that creep upon the earth, and all the men that are upon
the face of the earth, shall shake at My presence, and the
mountains shall be thrown down, and the steep places shall
fall, and every wall shall fall to the ground.</hi>&mdash;The result
will be that the men (fishes, C. 214) not under religious
restraint (Z. '86:1), the most execrable of the people of
the world (fowls, C. 162), the revolutionary governments
(beasts, A. 261), and all the lowest of mankind shall be
thrown into revolutionary commotion; and the nations
(mountains, A. 318) shall be overthrown in anarchy, together
with all the civil powers (walls, D. 40) of the world.
</p>

<p>
38:21. <hi rend='sans'>And I will call for a sword against him throughout
all My mountains, saith the Lord God: every man's
sword shall be against his brother.</hi>&mdash;God will do His dreadful
work of ending this present evil world, and will call
for the universal arming of mankind with destroying
weapons, so that every man's weapons will be against every
other man.
</p>

<p>
38:22. <hi rend='sans'>And I will plead against him with pestilence and
with blood; and I will rain upon him, and upon his bands,
and upon the many people that are with him, an overflowing
rain, and great hailstones, fire, and brimstone.</hi>&mdash;God
will fight miraculously against the hosts of evil with pestilence
and death, and will overwhelm them with a flood of
Truth&mdash;with hard facts, to smite their hearts&mdash;and with
anarchy, destruction, utter and complete. So also will the
Almighty deal with the rebels of a thousand years later.
</p>

<p>
38:23. <hi rend='sans'>Thus will I magnify Myself, and sanctify Myself;
and I will be known in the eyes of many nations, and
they shall know that I am the Lord.</hi>&mdash;So will God magnify
His reputation as the One to be reverenced, and the fame
of His power will spread throughout the world.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='563'/><anchor id='Pg563'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 39&mdash;Death Of Pride's Multitude</head>

<p>
39:1. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore, thou son of man, prophesy against Gog,
and say, Thus saith the Lord God; Behold, I am against
thee, O Gog, the chief prince of Meshech and Tubal.</hi>&mdash;This
has a triple fulfillment: (a) the destruction of the
literal armies that will attack the Hebrews at the beginning
of the Millennium; (b) the destruction of their pride
and their sophistries by the Truth; and (c) at the end of
the Millennium the literal annihilation of the hosts that
will then be deceived by Satan, and the destruction of their
errors by the loyal members of the Kingdom. Jehovah is
against these evil leaders and their multitude. The
greatest curse of God's people in all times has been
pride.&mdash;Matt. 5:3; 1 John 3:12; John 8:44; Isa. 14:14;
Psa. 119:113; Prov. 6:17; Psa. 101:5; Prov. 8:13; Isa.
2:12; Prov. 16:18; 2 Thes. 2:4; Mal. 3:15; Mark 10:43.
</p>

<p>
39:2. <hi rend='sans'>And I will turn thee back, and leave but the sixth
part of thee, and will cause thee to come up from the
north parts, and will bring thee upon the mountains of
Israel.</hi>&mdash;Jehovah will lead them on (R. V.), controlled and
directed by the spiritual phase of the Kingdom (north) to
(a, b) bring a host against restored Israel; and (c) a
thousand years later another Satanic multitude against
the entire restored Kingdom.
</p>

<p>
39:3. <hi rend='sans'>And I will smite thy bow out of thy left hand,
and will cause thine arrows to fall out of thy right hand.</hi>&mdash;God
will (a, b) destroy the weapons and the power of the
anti-Hebrew crusade; and (b, c) He will also end, in those
hosts, their hatred (bow) and their bitter words (arrows).
</p>

<p>
39:4. <hi rend='sans'>Thou shalt fall upon the mountains of Israel, thou,
and all thy bands, and the people that is with thee: I will
give thee unto the ravenous birds of every sort, and to the
beasts of the field, to be devoured.</hi>&mdash;These evil hosts
(a, b, c) shall die; and God will give the first one to be
disorganized, disrupted and destroyed by the most
execrable of mankind (birds and beasts); and He will
deliver (b) both it and (c) the second into the power of
the spiritual phase of His Kingdom, to be wiped out.
</p>

<p>
39:5. <hi rend='sans'>Thou shalt fall upon the open field: for I have
spoken it, saith the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;They shall fall defenseless
at the hands of their destroyers.
</p>

<pb n='564'/><anchor id='Pg564'/>

<p>
39:6. <hi rend='sans'>And I will send a fire on Magog, and among them
that dwell carelessly in the isles: and they shall know that
I am the Lord.</hi>&mdash;God will (a, b) send anarchy (fire) among
the peoples of the revolutionary republics (isles); and
literal miraculous annihilation upon the second uprising
of Satan and his deceived followers.
</p>

<p>
39:7. <hi rend='sans'>So will I make My holy name known in the midst
of My people Israel; and I will not let them pollute My
holy name any more: and the heathen shall know that I
am the Lord, the Holy One in Israel.</hi>&mdash;Through this miraculous
deliverance (a) the Hebrews shall be converted to the
Truth, so that they shall never again be a discredit to
God's name; and (b, c) all mankind also shall thereby
learn fully to know God.
</p>

<p>
39:8. <hi rend='sans'>Behold, it is come, and it is done, saith the Lord
God; this is the day whereof I have spoken.</hi>&mdash;It shall surely
come; it shall be done; thus shall be the day of the end
of evil and the final establishment of right, whereof God
has spoken in His Word.
</p>

<p>
39:9. <hi rend='sans'>And they that dwell in the cities of Israel shall
go forth, and shall set on fire and burn the weapons, both
the shields and the bucklers, the bows and the arrows, and
the handstaves, and the spears, and they shall burn them
with fire seven years.</hi>&mdash;The regathered Hebrews of Palestine
(a) shall be seven years burning and destroying the
weapons of war of this evil rabble, (a) The hosts of
heaven and of earth (b, c) shall eternally (seven years)
recount the lesson of the utter end of Satan's deceptive
doctrines, of credulity (shield) of hatred (bows), evil-speaking
(arrows) and other evil character-fruits.
</p>

<p>
39:10. <hi rend='sans'>So that they shall take no wood out of the field,
neither cut down any out of the forests; for they shall
burn the weapons with fire: and they shall spoil those that
spoiled them, and rob those that robbed them, saith the
Lord God.</hi>&mdash;So numerous will be the weapons of war (a)
of those Divinely vanquished armies that the Hebrews
will need no other firewood, but will burn the weapons.
They shall plunder those that plunder them. The innumerable
sophistries (b, c) by which Satan's legions shall
seek to grasp the Kingdom power, and their miraculous
overthrow, shall forever furnish lessons to help the inheritors
of the Kingdom.
</p>

<p>
39:11. <hi rend='sans'>And It shall come to pass in that day, that I will
give unto Gog a place there of graves in Israel, the valley
of the passengers on the east of the sea; and it shall stop
the noses of the passengers: and there shall they bury
Gog and all his multitude: and they shall call it, The valley
of Hamon-gog.</hi>&mdash;God will give (a) the self-exalted anti-Semite
<pb n='565'/><anchor id='Pg565'/>
crusaders a place of burial in Palestine. In the
valley used as a highway east of the Dead Sea, the dead
shall be a stench to the passers-by; and there shall they
bring the proud (Gog, high, proud ones) hosts to their
end, and they shall call it the Valley of Pride's Multitude
(Hamon, multitude). Then, and a thousand years later
(b, c), the memory of the proud dead shall be offensive
to all that recall it.
</p>

<p>
39:12. <hi rend='sans'>And seven months shall the house of Israel be
burying of them, that they may cleanse the land.</hi>&mdash;For
seven months (a) the Hebrews shall be burying the crusaders,
that they may cleanse the land defiled by the dead.
And then, and after the Millennium (b, c), for many years
shall the spiritual members of the Kingdom be neutralizing
the sophistries of Satan, that they may thoroughly cleanse
the Kingdom of its spiritual defilement.
</p>

<p>
39:13. <hi rend='sans'>Yea, all the people of the land shall bury them;
and it shall be to them a renown the day that I shall be
glorified, saith the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;Yea (a) all the nations shall
bury the dead; and the day of pride's (Gog's) overthrow
shall be a celebrated day among them. All the people of
the Kingdom (b, c) shall loyally assist in cleansing their
beloved Kingdom of the spiritual defilement. It will always
be a day to be remembered.&mdash;Mal. 4:1.
</p>

<p>
39:14. <hi rend='sans'>And they shall sever out men of continual employment,
passing through the land, to bury with the passengers
those that remain upon the face of the earth, to
cleanse it: after the end of seven months shall they search.</hi>&mdash;After
the seven months (a) men shall be hired regularly
to search through the land, in cooperation with any travelers,
for any dead remaining on the earth, to thoroughly
cleanse the land. And then, and after the thousand years
(b, c) spiritual teachers shall be detailed to remove any
remaining spiritual defilement, by teaching the Truth.
</p>

<p>
39:15. <hi rend='sans'>And the passengers that pass through the land,
when any seeth a man's bone, then shall he set up a sign
by it, till the buriers have buried it in the valley of
Hamon-gog.</hi>&mdash;Any travelers (a) passing by, that see even
a human bone, shall mark it for the buriers to bury in the
Valley of Pride's Multitude. And then, and a thousand
years later (b, c) any one noticing any vestige of death-dealing
error shall mark it for the special teachers to
cleanse away with truth.
</p>

<p>
39:16. <hi rend='sans'>And also the name of the city shall be Hamonah.
Thus shall they cleanse the land.</hi>&mdash;There shall (a) be a city
there named Multitude (Hamonah, Multitude). Thus shall
they cleanse the land; and then (b, c) and beyond the
thousand years there shall be a perfect government (city)&mdash;not
<pb n='566'/><anchor id='Pg566'/>
such a government as Satan would establish again,
not usurped by the few, Satan and his agents, but a government,
under God&mdash;of multitudes of restored and perfect
men&mdash;a Divine Republic, called <q>Multitude.</q>
</p>

<p>
39:17. <hi rend='sans'>And, thou son of man, thus saith the Lord God;
Speak unto every feathered fowl, and to every beast of
the field, Assemble yourselves, and come; gather yourselves
on every side to My sacrifice that I do sacrifice for
you, even a great sacrifice upon the mountains of Israel,
that ye may eat flesh, and drink blood.</hi>&mdash;God says: (a)
When the proud revolutionists shall set themselves in array
against His people, to call to the most execrable of men
(fowls) and to the revolutionary rulers (beasts); Come to
the great destruction of hosts of rebellious humanity,
where you, in anarchy, shall destroy these people; symbolically
(b, c) a call to the far-sighted spiritual ones
(eagles) and the believing ones of earth (beasts&mdash;members
of the Lion of the Tribe of Judah) to gather themselves
to feast upon, to destroy with the weapons of Divine
Truth, the evil doctrines (flesh, as the flesh of Jesus
symbolizes true doctrines) and the corrupting errors
(blood) of Satan.
</p>

<p>
39:18. <hi rend='sans'>Ye shall eat the flesh of the mighty, and drink
the blood of the princes of the earth, of rams, of lambs,
and of goats, of bullocks, all of them fatlings of Bashan.</hi>&mdash;They
shall (b, c) consume the sophistries of Satan (the
mighty), and annihilate the errors of earth's great false
teachers and rulers&mdash;New Thought doctrines of devils relating
to the attainment of perfection, to whatever kind
and degree desired&mdash;to be as mature leaders (rams), among
the sheep, as tender-charactered lambs, as self-willed, self-masters
through thought-power (goats), or as perfect human
beings (bullocks), all imagining themselves actually,
fully developed (fatlings), under the delusions of Satan's
fruitful mind (Bashan, fruitful).
</p>

<p>
39:19. <hi rend='sans'>And ye shall eat fat till ye be full, and drink blood
till ye be drunken, of My sacrifice which I have sacrificed
for you.</hi>&mdash;They shall (b, c) with the Truth consume and
destroy these false philosophies, until satiated with the
glorious witness for God's Truth.
</p>

<p>
39:20. <hi rend='sans'>Thus ye shall be filled at My table with horses
and chariots, with mighty men, and with all men of war,
saith the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;Thus (b, c) at God's table of spiritual
food, His people shall have an abundant feeding upon the
truths which shall destroy the errors of the Time of
Trouble, the doctrines and the organizations actuated by
these doctrines and the rulers, philosophies, teachers and
workers in the cause of evil.
</p>

<pb n='567'/><anchor id='Pg567'/>

<p>
39:21. <hi rend='sans'>And I will set My glory among the heathen, and
all the heathen shall see My judgment that I have executed,
and My hand that I have laid upon them.</hi>&mdash;God will (a, b, c)
make Himself renowned among all nations; and they shall
realize that He shall have executed judgment upon them,
and that it is His hand of Justice that has been laid upon
them for their misdeeds.
</p>

<p>
39:22. <hi rend='sans'>So the house of Israel shall know that I am the
Lord their God from that day and forward.</hi>&mdash;Thus shall
(a) the Hebrews and (b, c) all professing Christians know
Jehovah as their God, from that time on forever.
</p>

<p>
39:23. <hi rend='sans'>And the heathen shall know that the house of
Israel went into captivity for their iniquity: because they
trespassed against Me, therefore hid I My face from them,
and gave them into the hand of their enemies; so fell they
all by the sword.</hi>&mdash;The whole world shall know that the
Hebrews (a) went into captivity to literal Babylon and to
Mystic Babylon, and that the unfaithful professing Christians
went into captivity (b) to Mystic Babylon and (c) to
Satan's deceptions, because they sinned against God. For
this reason He disfavored them and gave them over into
the power of their enemies. So shall they fall, by literal
weapons of destruction and (b, c) be slain by the Sword of
the Spirit.
</p>

<p>
39:24. <hi rend='sans'>According to their uncleanness and according to
their transgressions have I done unto them, and hid My
face from them.</hi>&mdash;According to their physical, mental,
moral and spiritual pollution, and to their sinfulness, God
will recompense and disfavor them.
</p>

<p>
39:25. <hi rend='sans'>Therefore thus saith the Lord God; Now will I
bring again the captivity of Jacob, and have mercy upon
the whole house of Israel, and will be jealous for My holy
name.</hi>&mdash;Then when the punishment is over (D. 557), will
God (a) release the Hebrews (A. 300) from their captivity
in Mystic Babylon and in the tomb, and antitypically that
of Christendom. He will show His mercy and love toward
all the Hebrews, living and dead (D. 557), and (b, c), toward
all of Christendom, the quick and the dead, and will vindicate
His reputation for righteousness.
</p>

<p>
39:26. <hi rend='sans'>After that they have borne their shame, and all
their trespasses whereby they have trespassed against Me,
when they dwelt safely in their land, and none made them
afraid.</hi>&mdash;After they (a) have thus (D. 558) endured their
shame and the punishment for all their sins, wherein they
have erred against the Lord, while the Jews were peacefully
dwelling in Palestine (b, c) and the professing Christians
in Christendom, and while no one made them afraid,
the sure results shall follow.
</p>

<pb n='568'/><anchor id='Pg568'/>

<p>
39:27. <hi rend='sans'>When I have brought them again from the people,
and gathered them out of their enemies' lands, and am
sanctified in them in the sight of many nations.</hi>&mdash;In Zionism
(a) God shall regather the Jews and (b, c) bring Jews
and Christians alike back from the great enemy, death,
and by their holy, consecrated lives, He will be hallowed
in the regard of the whole world.
</p>

<p>
39:28. <hi rend='sans'>Then shall they know that I am the Lord their
God, which caused them to be led into captivity among the
heathen: but I have gathered them unto their own land,
and have left none of them any more there.</hi>&mdash;Then shall
they in humble thankfulness appreciate that God is the
beloved Jehovah, the Just One, who shall have punished
them with captivity among the nations, and then in infinite
Wisdom, Power and Love shall have gathered all of them,
living and dead, (a) back to their former homes in Palestine
(b, c) and in Christendom, and shall have left not one
in captivity any more.
</p>

<p>
39:29. <hi rend='sans'>Neither will I hide My face any more from them:
for I have poured out My Spirit upon the house of Israel,
saith the Lord God.</hi>&mdash;God will not disfavor them any more:
for He will pour out upon them (a) Jews and (b, c) Christians
together, His Holy Spirit, the Comforter, to abide
in them forever.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<quote rend='display'>

<lg>
<l>Great truths are dearly bought. The common truth,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>Such as men give and take from day to day,</l>
<l>Comes in the common walk of easy life,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>Blown by the careless wind across our way.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Great truths are dearly won; not found by chance,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>Nor wafted on the breath of summer dream;</l>
<l>But grasped in the great struggle of the soul,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>Hard buffeting with adverse wind and stream.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Not in the general clash of human creeds,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>Nor in the merchandise 'twixt church and world,</l>
<l>Is truth's fair treasure found, 'mongst tares and weeds;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>Nor her fair banner in their midst unfurled.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Truth springs like harvest from the well-ploughed fields,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>Rewarding patient toll, and faith, and zeal.</l>
<l>To those thus seeking her, she ever yields</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>Her richest treasures for their lasting weal.</l>
</lg>

</quote>

</div>

<pb n='569'/><anchor id='Pg569'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ezekiel 40-48&mdash;God's Temple And River Of Truth</head>

<p>
This vision of the prophet Ezekiel depicts the established
theocratic Kingdom of God on earth, civil and religious,
spiritual and earthly. While the Temple is an architectural
possibility, as shown in the accompanying illustrations,
(and may be erected at Jerusalem), it, in its various parts,
surroundings, rites and worshippers, is a type and symbol
of <q>better things to come,</q> after the wars, revolutions and
anarchy of the period from 1914 to 1925 have passed.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The Time</hi> of the establishment of the Kingdom in power
is indicated as <q>in the fourteenth year after that the city
(Christendom) was smitten</q>&mdash;or thirteen years after 1918,
viz., in 1931.&mdash;Ezek. 40:1.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Place.</hi>&mdash;The Temple was seen in the <q>land of Israel</q>&mdash;in
Palestine. As a place types a condition, the land of
Israel is typical of the condition of the whole world of
mankind; and the city, at the south side of a very high
mountain, is symbolic of the established earthly phase
(south) of the Divine Government overshadowed by the
autocratic (very high) spiritual phase of the Kingdom
(mountain).&mdash;Ezek. 40:2.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>By Whom.</hi>&mdash;The one who showed the Temple to the
Church, the Elijah class, was <q>the man in linen</q>&mdash;Pastor
Russell. The brass (copper) of vs. 3 represents his justification.
In his power (hand) were the Divine standards of
measurement&mdash;the reed (Word of God) and the <q>line of
flax</q> (linen, righteousness). His standing was in the east
gate of the Sanctuary&mdash;in Christ (gate). With the Word
he measured the Temple (the Church, and the subsidiary
classes) and with the standard of perfect Divine righteousness
(flax, linen) he measured the progress of the
life-giving River of Truth.&mdash;Ezek. 40:3; 43:6; 44:4; 47:1-3.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Purpose.</hi>&mdash;The vision is important. Those that have eyes
to see and ears to hear, must set their heart upon all that
the Laodicean steward shows them, <q>for to the intent that
I might show them unto thee, art thou brought hither.</q>
(40:4.) The hearers are to declare all that they see, to
professing Christians (house of Israel), that they may be
ashamed of former beliefs and practices, and in complete
consecration seek to conform themselves to all the Divine
standards.&mdash;Ezek. 43:10-12; 44:4-6; 47:6.
</p>

<pb n='570'/><anchor id='Pg570'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The Measures.</hi>&mdash;The standards of the Kingdom will be
the fulness of the Word of God (the reed of 9 feet of six
<q>great cubits,</q> each about 18 inches, or of a 15-inch cubit
and a handbreadth) (Ezek. 40:3, 5), and the standard of
Divine righteousness.&mdash;Ezek. 40:3, 47:3.
</p>

<p>
An interchangeable decimal system of dry and liquid
measures is given, symbolic of just and righteous dealing.
An ephah (dry measure) equals a bath (liquid measure),
and ten of either is a homer or cor. The homer is about
75 gallons and the ephah and the bath, one tenth of a
homer, or 7-½ gallons each. (Ezek. 45:10-11).
</p>

<p>
The measures of volume are to be used chiefly in connection
with the sacrifices&mdash;so many ephahs of wheat or
baths of oil as a meat or drink offering with a bullock, etc.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Symbolisms of Numbers.</hi>&mdash;Numbers are used as symbols
of completeness or perfection, or their opposite. The
common conception of the symbolisms of numbers is:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
One&mdash;Unity, self-sufficiency.
</p>

<p>
Two&mdash;Duality, couples.
</p>

<p>
Three&mdash;That in itself complete, invisible, infinite.
</p>

<p>
Four&mdash;That in which God reveals Himself completely,
as the four cherubim, the four-sided altar, and the
cubic shaped Most Holy.
</p>

<p>
Five&mdash;Used in connection with ten, completeness in
the stage, degree, or power attained or ordained;
a symbol of Divinity.
</p>

<p>
Six&mdash;Secular completeness, or completeness according
to man; imperfection; also full measure of the Word.&mdash;Ezek.
40:5.
</p>

<p>
Seven&mdash;The sum of three and four; religious or Divine
completeness or perfection; the covenant number.
The half of seven (3-½), the broken number, appears
in connection with suffering.
</p>

<p>
Ten&mdash;The natural symbol of perfection, completeness,
complete development, a complete and perfect whole.
</p>

<p>
Twelve&mdash;Three times four; the number of the covenant
people; completeness of organization; national completeness.
</p>

<p>
Multiples or powers of these numbers combine or intensify
their symbolism.
</p>

</quote>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url="images/img587.png" rend="width: 80%">
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<pb n='572'/><anchor id='Pg572'/>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Symbolism of Directions.</hi>&mdash;The north points to spiritual
things, the south to earthly things, the east to Christ and
His ransom sacrifice. The right is the side of favor, the
left of less favor, or of disfavor. Higher elevations represent
higher planes of being or of power; lower planes the
opposite.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url="images/img588.png" rend="width: 80%">
    <head>Figure 1. The Division Of The Land</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The Land and Its Divisions.</hi>&mdash;As places typify conditions,
the land of Canaan, of the children of Israel, types the
whole world of mankind. Its division among the twelve
tribes, in equal parts varying in nearness to the central
sacred portion, suggests, among restored humanity, twelve
conditions or degrees of honor in the Kingdom, each individual
being accorded a place befitting his loyalty and
love during his trial or judgment period. The meaning of
the names of the tribes is suggestive, the names being in
<pb n='573'/><anchor id='Pg573'/>
order of nearness to the central sacred portion. (See
Figure 1.)&mdash;See Rev. 7.
</p>

<p>
To the north of the sacred portion: Judah (praise, Gen.
49:8-12); Reuben (behold a son, Gen. 49:3-4); Ephraim
(doubly fruitful, Gen. 48:15-20); Manasseh (causing forgetfulness,
Gen. 48:15-20); Naphtali (wrestling, Gen. 49:21);
Asher (happy, Gen. 49:20); and at the extreme north, Dan
(judge, Gen. 49:16-18).&mdash;Ezek. 48:1-7.
</p>

<p>
To the south of the central sacred portion: Benjamin
(son of the right hand, Gen. 49:27); Simeon (hearing,
Gen. 49:5-7); Issachar (bearing reward, Gen. 49:14-15);
Zebulun (dwelling, Gen. 49:13); and at the extreme south,
Gad (seer, lot, fortune, Gen. 49:19). (Ezek. 48:23-29.) The
name meanings and Jacob's prophetic blessings are significant
of Kingdom conditions.
</p>

<p>
Figure 1 shows the division of Palestine into the strips
assigned to the tribes and the central sacred portion.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The Boundaries of the Land</hi> (Ezek. 47:13-21) are through
places whose name-meanings are suggestive of Kingdom
conditions. On the north side: Hethlon (stronghold),
Hamath (defended, walled), Berotha (food), Sibraim
(double hill), Hazar-Hatticon (middle court), Hauran (cave
district), Hazar-enan (court of the fountains) and Damascus
(similitude of burning). On the east side: Gilead
(strong, rocky), Israel (ruling with God), and Jordan (descender).
On the south side: Tamar (palm), and Kadesh
(holy). On the west: the Great Sea (peoples and nations).
</p>

<p>
The land is to be apportioned by lot, symbolizing that
the station of Kingdom honor of individuals in the Times
of Restitution is not predestinated but the result of the
degree of effort and of consecration. (Ezek. 45:1.) Whatever
the honor attained, it cannot be taken away. (Ezek.
46:18.) All are to have an equal chance. (Ezek. 47:14.)
Former pagan and heathen persons (strangers) are to
have the same chance as God's chosen people, the Jews,
as though born to the same honored favor.&mdash;Ezek. 47:22-23.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The Holy Offering of Land.</hi>&mdash;(Figure 2.) The people are
not to occupy all the land, but are to devote as a sacred
offering, or <q>oblation,</q> a central strip across Palestine,
25,000 reeds or about 42.6 miles wide, to sacred and governmental
uses. Figure 2 shows the holy offering of land
and its divisions. The two ends of the strip will be for
the Prince, typing the condition of the Prince, or Ancient
Worthy class. The 25,000-reeds-square dimensions of the
central section&mdash;as powers and multiples of ten and five&mdash;combined
with the full measure (reed) of the Divine Word
as applying to the classes therein represented, suggest the
exalted degree of perfection of these classes. The conditions
<pb n='574'/><anchor id='Pg574'/>
represented are: at the north (spiritual) the Divine
nature of the Little Flock (priests); in the middle, the
intermediate, lower spirit nature of the Great Company
(Levites); at the south, of half the width, of a lesser
degree of honor (secular), the perfect human nature of
those engaged in the actual government of the world. As in
many other types the same antitypes are presented repeatedly
in their several phases.&mdash;Ezek. 45:1, 4, 7; 48:20.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Land of the Priests.</hi>&mdash;The northern section, 10,000 reeds
wide, of the holy central square, typifies the condition of
the Little Flock, of the highest spirit nature, the Divine,
(northernmost). This is a <q>most holy</q> condition. (Ezek.
48:9-12.) In it, as appertains to the inheritors of the nature
of God, will be the Sanctuary&mdash;the entire Temple and its
courts&mdash;typing the spiritual domain of the ruling Christ
over all the affairs of the coming Kingdom of Heaven on
earth.&mdash;Ezek. 44:28; 45:3-4; 48:8-12.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url="images/img590.png" rend="width: 80%">
    <head>Figure 2. The Holy Offering Of Land</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Land of the Levites.</hi>&mdash;Inferior as to direction, toward
the south (toward earthly things), the spiritual condition
(land) of the Great Company (Levites) will be, as have
been their religious lives&mdash;trending from heavenly to
earthly throughout the Gospel Age of Divine opportunity.
This will be their condition throughout eternity, unchangeable,
inalienable&mdash;but <q>holy unto Jehovah.</q> There will be
among them twenty grades of honor&mdash;<q>twenty chambers.</q>&mdash;Ezek.
45:5; 48:13-14.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Secular Land for the City.</hi>&mdash;At the extreme south (earthly)
of the holy square will be a 5,000-reed-wide section
which will be <q>secular for the city.</q> This represents in
miniature the perfect human condition of the visible rulers
(city) of the earthly phase of the Kingdom and of all those
<pb n='575'/><anchor id='Pg575'/>
under that Divine government&mdash;the whole world of mankind
(Israel). The city will be in the middle of this section,
a 4,500-reed square, which, with a border or suburb
250 reeds wide all around, reaches across the secular land,
symbolizing the dominance of the coming world government
over the human race. (Ezek. 45:6, 7; 48:15-20, 35.)
So extraordinary and heart-satisfying will be the methods
of and the blessings from the Divine government (city)
that it will appropriately be called <q>The Wonder of
Jehovah.</q>&mdash;E. <hi rend='italic'>46</hi>, 43.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Land for Sanctuary.</hi>&mdash;In the center of the priests' land
will be the land for the Sanctuary, an area 500 cubits, or
750 feet square, surrounded by a 50-cubit, or 75-foot, border
or <q>suburb.</q> In this square will be the walls, courts and
structures of the sanctuary. It will type again in miniature,
in detail, the conditions of all classes in the Kingdom
from the Christ (priests) down, as regards their religious
relationship to one another and to God.&mdash;Ezek. 45:2-3.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Land for the Prince.</hi>&mdash;Both of the ends of the 25,000-reed-wide
offering of land, east and west of the central
holy square, will be given to <q>the Prince,</q> typing the perfect
human condition of the Ancient Worthies, or overcomers
before the Gospel Age, who shall be <q>Princes
in all the earth.</q> As the Prince's land will not be inalienable
but may be given away by the Prince, so to certain
classes it will be given to share in the perfected condition
of the Ancient Worthies.&mdash;Ezek. 45:7-8; 46:16-18; 48:21-22.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The Classes.</hi>&mdash;In the Kingdom there will be several distinct
classes, according to opportunity and degree of faithfulness
in ages preceding establishment of the Kingdom.
</p>

<p>
The priests will be the glorified Little Flock, faithful
unto death, sons of God, the Righteous One (Zadok, righteous),
who during the Gospel Age <q>kept the charge of
God's Sanctuary,</q> by faithfulness to the Word of God at
any cost. They will be <q>of the Divine nature.</q>&mdash;Ezek.
40:44-46; 43:18-27; 44:15-31; 45:4; 48:10-12.
</p>

<p>
The antitypical Levites (Great Company), will have spirit
nature akin to the angelic, because though during the Gospel
Age they were also begotten of the Spirit, sons of God
(Zadok, righteous), they <q>went astray from God, after
their idols;</q> they ministered unto the people before their
idols and caused the house of Israel (Christendom) to
fall into iniquity. They shall bear their iniquity.&mdash;Ezek.
44:10-14; 45:5; 48:13-14.
</p>

<p>
The Ancient Worthies (the Prince), who in the Jewish
Age were faithful unto death amid incredible trials of
faith (Heb. 11), will during the 1,000 years be of the perfect
human nature, and will be on earth the visible leaders
<pb n='576'/><anchor id='Pg576'/>
and rulers of mankind.&mdash;Ezek. 44:1-3; 45:7-17, 21-25; 46:16-18;
48:21-22.
</p>

<p>
The servants of the city will be of the perfect human
nature, and engaged in the multifarious duties of a world
wide government. They will be taken from amongst mankind.
Some are spoken of as servants and some as sons
of the Ancient Worthies.&mdash;Ezek. 48:18-19; 46:16-18.
</p>

<p>
The people of the Kingdom will be first the resurrected
Hebrews, making progress during the 1,000 years toward
human perfection, but who in previous ages had not been
consecrated to God and had been far astray from Him.
(Romans 1.)&mdash;Ezek. 43:7-9; 44:6-12, 15, 19, 23-30; 45:6-21;
46:1-3, 9-10; 47:13-14; 48:11, 18-19, 23-29.
</p>

<p>
The <q>strangers</q> will be the resurrected billions of
humanity, not Jews, who gaining the heart circumcision
of a conscience cleansed by the blood of Jesus, shall be
as though born to the same conditions as the Hebrews.
None of them shall have part in the direct service of
God.&mdash;Ezek. 44:9; 47:22-23; Zech. 14:20-21; Numbers 31:47;
Joel 3:17; Joshua 9:22-27; Rev. 21:27.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Sanctuary and Outer Court.</hi>&mdash;The Sanctuary will be the
entire enclosure devoted to the Divine service. According
to Ezekiel 45:2 the exterior wall is around a square of
500 cubits, and by 42:16-20 it is 500 <hi rend='italic'>reeds</hi>, or 3,000 cubits
square; but the latter is translated <q>cubits</q> in the Septuagint,
and the former agrees minutely with the internal
measurements. About the outer court of 500 cubits square
will be a border or suburb 50 cubits wide to separate the
Sanctuary from the surrounding land. (Ezek. 42:20.) The
outer court types the condition of the Ancient Worthies
and of the Hebrews and the world of mankind, the former
of actually perfect humanity, and the latter of a perfect
heart condition and striving toward human perfection.
This court will be at an elevation above the surrounding
land and will be reached by seven steps, symbolizing the
human perfection, actual or heart, of those that enter the
court. It will be surrounded by a wall one reed high and
a reed thick. The wall types Christ in the Ancient
Worthies, who will constitute the embodiment of the
Divinely appointed wall of faith about the Sanctuary. The
reed indicates the full measure of the Divine Word as
regards the human nature.&mdash;Ezek. 40:6, 17-19, 22-23, 27, 34;
42:1, 7-9, 14-20; 43:1-5; 44:1-3, 19; 45:1-2; 46:19-24.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url="images/img593a.png" rend="width: 80%">
    <head>Figure 3. The Sanctuary</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url="images/img593b.png" rend="width: 60%">
    <head>Figure 4. The Temple</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url="images/img594b.png" rend="width: 80%">
    <head>Figure 5.</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url="images/img594c.png" rend="width: 60%">
    <head>Figure 6. One Of The Outer Court Gates</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url="images/img594a.png" rend="width: 80%">
    <head>Figure 7. Section Through Most Holy Across The Sanctuary</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Inner Court.</hi>&mdash;The inner court will be an enclosure
toward the rear or west of the outer court, 200 cubits wide
by 300 deep. It types the spirit-born condition of the
Great Company (Levites), and is at an elevation of eight
steps, symbolizing by one step the change to spirit nature
<pb n='579'/><anchor id='Pg579'/>
and by seven steps the perfection of that nature&mdash;perfect,
though not the highest nature. Its wall represents Christ
in the Great Company, and the absence of dimensions for
the wall represents that <q>it doth not yet appear</q> what the
spirit nature is like. Both inner and outer courts will be
adorned with colonnades of pillars, probably along the
inner border of the pavements, typing those on each plane
of being who shall be <q>pillars in the house of Jehovah.</q>&mdash;Ezekiel
40:27, 28, 34, 37, 39-47; 42:2-4; 43:4-5; 44:17-18,
21, 25-27; 46:19-24.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The Temple.</hi>&mdash;The Temple building (Figure 4) will be
toward the rear and reaching to within 50 cubits of the
rear of the inner court. It will be on a platform 60 cubits
wide by 100 deep. This types the condition of the Little
Flock, born from the dead to the nature of God. It will
be elevated one reed above the inner court, representing
that the Divine nature is the full measure of the Word
of God above any other spirit nature, <q>far above angels,
principalities and powers.</q> Its infinite height above other
natures is indicated by the fact that the number of steps
up to it is not stated, for it is an immeasurable, infinite
elevation. (41:8-11.) The Temple will be entered by a
porch, and will contain <q>the holy</q> twenty by forty cubits,
and the <q>Most Holy</q> or <q>oracle</q> twenty cubits square, inside
measurement. These rooms type the glorious condition
of the Christ, Head and Body, of the nature of God. That
the person being shown tills did not enter the Most Holy
(Ez. 41:3, 4) suggests that it is not given to know yet
<q>what we shall be,</q> in that condition where <q>the glory of
Jehovah filled the house.</q>&mdash;Ezek. 41:1-2, 43:5.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Pavements and Open Ways.</hi>&mdash;The outer and inner courts
will not be simple inclosures, as was the Tabernacle
court, but each will include a bordering space, or pavement,
50 cubits wide, occupied by gates, buildings, and
passage ways, typing conditions and activities in the condition
typed by the inclosure. That embraced by the
outer court will be the <q>lower pavement.</q> (40:17-18.)
This will contain the east, north and south gates of the
outer court, and four corner courts where the Levites
will bake and boil the sacrifices of the people. It will also
contain 30 chambers, typing that number of conditions
or activities among those resurrected and perfected or
progressing toward human perfection. Each of the four
corner courts upon the lower pavement will be 30 by 40
cubits in size and will be surrounded by a row of structures
under which will be the boiling places for the preparation
of their sacrifices to be eaten by the people.
(Ezek. 46:21-24.) At the center of the east, north and
<pb n='580'/><anchor id='Pg580'/>
south lower pavements will be the outer gates, like covered
corridors or lobbies extending entirely across the
50-cubit pavement to the outer court proper, as shown in
Figure 3.
</p>

<p>
The corresponding 50-cubit pavement of the inner court
is not definitely termed a pavement, but the name is inferred
from the designation <q>lower pavement</q> for the
outer court pavement. It will contain the inner court
gate, and buildings for certain activities of the priests and
the Levites. The inner court 50-cubit pavement leaves
an inner space of 100 cubits square&mdash;the inner court
proper&mdash;facing the Temple and with the brazen altar in
the middle. This 100-cubit-wide area will extend west
about the Temple platform, surrounding it on the north,
west and south, with an open space 20 cubits wide, called
<q>the separate place.</q> On the upper pavement, flanking
the Temple north and south, and of the same length&mdash;100
cubits&mdash;as the Temple, will be two buildings on each side
for the priests, called the <q>priests' chambers.</q> These
buildings will be separated from each other by a 10-cubit
walk along the center line of the upper pavement. The
outer of each of the two pairs of <q>priests' chambers</q> will
be 50 cubits long, half the length of the inner buildings.
These are located on the upper pavement. At the rear
or west end of the upper pavement will be little square
courts, similar to the corner courts of the lower pavement,
and used by the priests for boiling and baking the sacrifices
eaten by the priests.&mdash;Ezek. 40:17-18; 41:10-15;
42:1-14; 45:2; 46:19-24.
</p>

<p>
The lesser elevation of the plane of these pavements,
courts and ways, types the lower plane of Spiritual being
of the persons, and their activities type things to be done
on that plane.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Chambers and Galleries for Priests.</hi>&mdash;In the inner court
near the north gate will be a chamber (Fig 3, D) with a
door looking toward the south, and one near the east gate
with its door looking toward the north. These will be
for the Priestly singers, the sweet singers in Israel, the
Little Flock, singing to God and to the people concerning
the Kingdom blessings. These immortal ones will sing
the praises of God for His goodness to those in the spirit
phase (north) of the Kingdom, and for the blessings flowing
from Christ's ransom altar (east gate) through restitution
to those in the earthly (south) phase of the Kingdom.&mdash;Ezek.
40:44-46.
</p>

<p>
On the north and on the south pavements of the inner
court flanking the Temple will be the two pairs of parallel
priests' chambers (Figures 3 and 5), in each pair the inner
<pb n='581'/><anchor id='Pg581'/>
building 100 cubits long and the outer 50 cubits. They
will be three stories high, the top story narrower than
the others and leaving galleries facing each other across
the 10-cubit way between them, into which their doors
will open one on each side of the way. In these chambers,
lighted by narrow windows the priests will lay the most
holy things, and eat the most holy things, including the
meat, sin and trespass offerings of prince and people in
the Millennial Age; humanity having been bought by
Christ will make the consecration of themselves and their
all to Christ, Head and Body. The Christ (priest) will
accept their consecrations (lay them in the priests' chambers)
and appropriate them to themselves (eat the offerings).
In the sacred conditions represented by the priests'
chambers the priests will have their feasts of love, as
they rejoice over the consecrated efforts of earth's billions
in their progress toward human perfection, and
thereafter. When the priests come out to the outer court
with the people they will change the holy garments they
wore in the priest's chambers and put on other garments.
The holy garments type the promises and Word of God as
concerns the Divine immortal nature, and the other garments
will be the Word and covenant of God as respects
things concerning the people and their restitution hopes
and blessings.&mdash;Ezek. 42:1-14; 44:19, 29-30; 46:19 20.
</p>

<p>
The Temple will be built with double walls all around,
except the porch in front (Figures 3, 4 and 5). This will
leave a space within the walls termed the <q>side chambers,</q>
in three stories reached by winding stairs, and reaching
up set quite to the top of the Temple inner wall. Each
story will be divided into 30 rooms. The second story
rooms will be wider than the first, and the third story
wider than the second. This will be accomplished by making
the thick walls thinner each story up. The floor
beams will rest, not in the walls, but on the recessions of
thickness with each story. No function is stated by Ezekiel,
but the similar side chambers in Solomon's Temple
were utilized for keeping Temple treasures and vessels. In
antitype the Temple is the Church, the Christ, Head and
Body, and in the chambers of memory of the Divine Christ
will be stored up not only the character treasures of oil
and incense and of gold and silver and precious stones
laid up in Heaven during the Gospel Age, but also the like
treasures offered by mankind throughout the Millennial
Age. Only the priests will have access to these treasures
and the Little Flock will forever guard these most precious
offerings. The three stories, each wider, suggest the character
treasures laid up by those on the three planes,
<pb n='582'/><anchor id='Pg582'/>
Human, Spirit, and Divine.&mdash;Ezek. 41:5-9; 1 Kings 6:5-10;
2 Chron. 3:9.
</p>

<p>
The Ezekiel Temple represents God's finished work. The
Holy does not type the spirit-begotten condition, but rather
the <emph>memory of it</emph> as a Divinely accomplished work&mdash;for
the experiences of the spirit-begotten condition will never
be lost. The Most Holy types the accomplished Divine
nature. No furniture appears in either of these sacred
chambers, except in the Holy, an altar of a kind of wood
not stated&mdash;an altar designated as <q>This is the table that
is before Jehovah.</q> If it is to be the same as is in Solomon's
Temple it will be cedar&mdash;type of immortality, the
Divine nature. No mention is made of offerings at this
altar, for the time of the Christ's sacrifice will be past.
The interior of both chambers will be sheathed with wood&mdash;presumably
cedar, type of immortality&mdash;up to the narrow
windows at the top of the inner wall of the Temple.
The interior decorations of palm trees, alternating with
two-faced cherubim, with the faces of a lion and of a man,
type that the purpose and concern of God's glorious Temple
will be the administration of the affairs of perfect righteous
men (palm trees) under the joint auspices of Divine
Justice and Love. If the two-leaved doors into the Holy
and the Most Holy are to be of the same wood as in Solomon's
Temple, they will be of olive, type of the peace of
God that passeth understanding for those privileged to
enter through the door of Christ.&mdash;Ezek. 41:13-25.
</p>

<p>
Back of, or west of the rear of the Temple, and separated
from it by the twenty cubits of the separate place
will be the western building, a structure of inside dimensions
70 by 90 cubits and with walls 5 cubits thick, making
the outside dimensions 80 by 100, or including the 20-cubit
separate place, 100 cubits square, indicating the Divine
perfection of the class represented by it. This is not connected
in any way with the altar or the Holy or Most Holy,
and its use is not stated. It answers the description of
such a class of beings as the angels.&mdash;Ezek. 41:12-13.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Chambers for the Levites.</hi>&mdash;Certain chambers will be set
apart for the activities of the Levites. Near the outer
door of the north gate of the inner court (a work done by
the spirit phase of the Kingdom) on the upper pavement
will be a chamber where the Levite will wash the burnt
offerings of the people. In the porch or lobby of the same
gate will be four tables of hewn stone, each 1-½ cubits
square by a cubit high, on which will be laid the instruments
for slaying the sacrifices, and whereon the sacrifices
will be slain and their flesh laid out. In the outer
court outside the inner court gate and beside the steps
<pb n='583'/><anchor id='Pg583'/>
leading up to the gate, will be the four more tables for
slaying the sacrifices, two on each side of the steps. In
antitype, the offerers will make or renew the consecration
of themselves, under the various required conditions, and
will be accepted by the Great Company (Levites) who will
act between the people and the Little Flock (priests).
The utter consecration of the persons, typed by the death
of the animals, will be supervised and directed by the
Great Company, and the offerers will endeavor to conform
themselves to the character pattern, suggested by
the cut stone of the tables and the resting of the flesh and
the slaughter instruments upon the tables. Those offering
themselves in heartfelt consecration as an expression
of their thankfulness to God (burnt offering) will be
cleansed in character by the teachings of the Word of
God (washed with water) imparted by the Great Company
(Levites).&mdash;Ezek. 40:39-43.
</p>

<p>
Certain of their offerings the people are to eat, figuring
their assimilation in their very beings of the consecrations
made. This process will not be without fiery trials,
ameliorated by the Word of God (hot water), chastenings
at the hands of the Great Company (Levites)&mdash;typed by
the boiling of the sacrifices by the Levites preparatory to
their being eaten by the people. This activity of the
Great Company is typed in the boiling places at the courts
in the corners of the lower pavement.&mdash;Ezek. 46:21-24.
</p>

<p>
Further activities by the Levites of thirty kinds in behalf
of or in cooperation with the people, may be typed in
the thirty chambers along the lower pavement of the
outer court.&mdash;Ezek. 40:17-18.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Gates, Doors, Porches, etc.</hi>&mdash;In the Tabernacle the gate,
the door and the veil, all facing the east, typed Christ and
in a certain sense those in Him. None might enter these
holy entrances except those having to do, as actual or
probationary, participants in the sin offering. So in the
Ezekiel Temple, in connection with the east gate of the
outer and inner courts is pictured the entrance of those
in previous ages having to do with the fiery sufferings
connected with the sin offering&mdash;the Little Flock and the
Ancient Worthies. The Little Flock is depicted as the
glory of God entering by the east gate of the outer court
and the east gate of the inner court, and finally into the
Temple (Ezek. 43:1-5), typing the progress of the Christ
Body through Christ Jesus, as the way (gate) into
imputed human perfection (outer court) through the
<q>change</q> to the Spirit plane (inner court) and up to the
immeasurable exaltation of the nature of God (Temple).
After the full entrance of the Body of Christ the outer
<pb n='584'/><anchor id='Pg584'/>
gate shall be shut, and no one shall enter except the
Ancient Worthies, who were privileged to enter their
honorable estate by the door of self-sacrifice unto death.
(Ezek. 44:1-3.) In the condition of being in Christ, in
the mind of Christ, the Ancient Worthies shall <q>sit</q>,
communing with Christ and with God, assimilating the
Word of God (eating), which shall strengthen them for
their stupendous task of the government and regeneration
of the whole world of mankind.
</p>

<p>
The eastern gate of the inner court, the way to the
Divine nature through sacrifice, will be closed after the
entrance of the glory of God, the Body of Christ, in whom
God dwells, and no one shall ever enter therein, as pictured
in the parable of the foolish virgins. (Z. '05-267;
Ezek. 46:1). In this gate, in Christ, at the very inner door
of the gate, having met all the conditions qualifying for
entrance upon the spirit nature, throughout the Millennium,
God's seventh day (the Sabbath), and the day of
the New Covenant (new moon), the Ancient Worthies will
have their standing. There in intimate communion with
the glorified Christ they will make their thankful consecrations
of themselves and their vows fulfill (burnt and
peace offerings), having their standing in Him Whom they
preceded in suffering, and Whom they follow in time and
place.&mdash;Ezek. 46:1-8, 12.
</p>

<p>
Entrance at the north or south gates of the inner or
outer courts signifies, not participation in, but benefit
from the Sin Offering. The gate looking toward the
north (spirit phase) types the looking toward the Divinely
provided ransom. It will be where the people will present
their sacrifices, and figures their consecrations and their
acknowledgment of the altar, the blood of Jesus Christ.
The gate looking toward the south will look figuratively
toward restitution. Those entering it, too, will acknowledge
the blood, for in entering it they will face directly
toward the altar. On the solemn feast days, the people
and the Prince entering the north gate must not go out by
the same gate, but by the south gate, and vice versa.
This types that every one entering the plane of actual or
heart perfection on the human plane must acknowledge
that the restitution (south) blessings were brought by the
spiritually (north) provided blood of the Redeemer.&mdash;Ezek.
40:20-31; 44:4-6; 46:9-10.
</p>

<p>
The typical importance of the gates, doors and porches
is emphasized in Ezekiel 44:5 <q>Mark well, and behold with
thine eyes (of understanding), and hear with thine ears
(of spiritual hearing), all that I shall say (write) unto thee
concerning all the ordinances of the house of Jehovah, and
<pb n='585'/><anchor id='Pg585'/>
the laws thereof, and mark well the entering in of the
house, with every going forth of the Sanctuary.</q>
</p>

<p>
The court gates (Figure 6) will be hallways crossing
the 50-cubit pavements. The size will be 50 by 25 cubits.
The outer court gate will be entered from a flight of
seven steps over the outer threshold through a door. The
narrow hallway will be flanked by six little chambers projecting
out one cubit into the hallway, three in a side,
and will end over an inner threshold in a porch or lobby,
frequently translated <q>arch</q>, from which an inner door
will open into the court. The inner court gate will be
of identical but reversed construction, the porch or lobby
coming first. The interior will be dimly lighted by narrow
windows. The walls along the hallway&mdash;the posts&mdash;will
be adorned with palm trees, reminders, antitypically,
that the purpose of the entire sanctuary is to promote the
glory of God by the restoration of mankind to perfection
(palms). The six little chambers type six conditions to
be complied with by those actually or at heart on the
perfect human plane, the size of the chambers&mdash;one reed
square&mdash;signifying that each of these conditions embraces
the full measure of the Word of God (reed)&mdash;perfect requirement
in that respect.&mdash;Ezek. 40:6-43; 43:1-4; 44:1-5;
46:1-12.
</p>

<p>
The porch of each gate and of the Temple types Christ,
as the resurrection&mdash;<q>I am the resurrection.</q> In the outer
court gates the person entering will pass the little chambers
first and the porch afterward, typing that during the
Times of Restitution the world of mankind will meet the
conditions before being fully resurrected to perfection.
In the inner court gates the porch will come first, signifying
that the person is first raised to the spirit condition
and then is developed. In connection with the Temple
porch there will be no little chambers, typing that the
Little Flock will have met all the conditions before their
exaltation.&mdash;Ezek. 40:8-9, 16, 20-22, 24-26, 33-36, 39-43, 48-49;
41:23-26.
</p>

<p>
The entrance to the Temple will be through a
lofty porch, flanked by two great pillars. These pillars
will be suggestively named, as in Solomon's Temple, the
right one, Jachin (He shall establish) and the left one,
Boaz (In it is strength). In these inspiring reminders
are seen the mighty strength of The Christ, possessors
of all power in Heaven and in earth, with which God
through them will establish His Kingdom.&mdash;1 Kings 7:13-22.
</p>

<p>
The priests' chambers on the upper pavement of the
Inner court will be entered by a separate gate and separate
stairs from the outer court, suggesting that the
<pb n='586'/><anchor id='Pg586'/>
entree to the love feasts of the Little Flock will be exclusively
for them alone. (Ezek. 46:19). The gates of
the city will be twelve in number, three on a side, and
each named for one of the twelve tribes.&mdash;Ezek. 48:31-34.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The Altars.</hi>&mdash;As the entire Plan of salvation centers
about the ransom sacrifice of Jesus Christ, so at the mathematical
center of the Ezekiel Temple will be the great
brazen altar, with its rites, and offerings, and the blood,
typing the ransom and the antitypical sin offering. It
will be at the center of both the outer court and of the
inner court, and of the priests' land and of the land divided
among the tribes, typical of the world. The court
gates will all point toward it, and facing it will be the
steps, porch, and outer and inner doors of the Temple.
The construction and dimensions of the altar are given in
Fig. 7. The brazen altar will be 4x12x12 cubits; it will be
reached by stairsteps from the east, and will rest upon
two borders or <q>settles,</q> respectively, 4x14x14 cubits and
2x16x16 cubits, the lower of which will rest upon a bottom
or foundation 1x18x18 cubits. The Tabernacle altar was
3x5x5 cubits, the dimensions suggesting incompleteness,
as compared with the numerical symbolism of the Ezekiel
altar. This altar types the completed work of the Sin
Offering and will be seen to be of far greater magnitude
and importance than even the eye of faith can now
perceive while the suffering work is in process. Its
elevation by the bottom and two settles suggests the lofty
exaltation of The Christ who participated in the Sin Offering
far above the beneficiaries from the blood&mdash;the
Great Company and the perfected world of humanity. It
will be approached by stairs to the height of the base of
the altar proper, typing that the evidence of the sacrifices
by the offerers will be carried into Heaven itself.&mdash;Ezek.
40:44-47; 43:13-27; 45:18-20; 47:1.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The Offerings.</hi>&mdash;The various offerings typify the following:
</p>

<p>
A burnt offering will be a thankful prayer to God, acknowledging
His mercy, wisdom and love as manifested
in the broken Body of the offerer's great Ransomer.
</p>

<p>
A peace offering will be the fulfilment of a vow or a
willing thank offering; the offerer eating the sacrifice will
be his appropriation to himself of the consecration; with
it he will eat certain things such as unleavened cakes, oil
and anointed wafers, signifying his faith in Christ's character
which he will copy.
</p>

<p>
A trespass offering signifies reconsecration in connection
with restoration for wrong, with recognition of the offerer's
imperfection and the value of the ransom.
</p>

<pb n='587'/><anchor id='Pg587'/>

<p>
A meat offering of fine flour, unleavened cakes, oil, etc.,
signifies the consecration of the offerer's all, the sample
burned on the altar meaning the consecration's approval
and acceptance by Jehovah.
</p>

<p>
The sin offering will be an acknowledgment of past
sins and of the application of the merit of the Ransom,
with repentance and reconsecration of the offerer.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Defilement and Cleansing.</hi>&mdash;There will be defilement of
individuals and the past defilement of the whole world.
The general defilements involving all&mdash;referring in part to
the typical location of the palace of Solomon and the kings,
close to the Temple&mdash;are Christendom's defilement of
God's holy name by their erroneous teachings about Him
and by the lives of those evil clergy and laity who presumed
to bear His name; their <q>whoredoms,</q> or unhallowed
union of church and state; their permitting of prominent
persons&mdash;clergy and laity&mdash;who were dead in trespasses
and sins, to assume elevated places in the worship
of God; their conjoining the entrance into the Temple
class (a church) with entrance into places of influence;
their establishing the same wall of living members of the
churches as the wall of business and the state; their encouraging
unconsecrated persons, not spirit-begotten, to
serve in the holy things in the church as teachers and
clergy; their breaking their covenant, made solemnly with
God in their consecrations; and their not keeping the
charge of the Divine Word of truth but hiring paid clergymen
to look after it for them. The great mass of the Spirit
begotten (Levites) had gone astray from God after their
man-made idols of earthly honor, power and wealth; and
they had served the evil tendencies of church members in
their idol worship. Between the people and the clergy
every conceivable abomination in the sight of God had
been practiced, and will require cleansing and a wholesome
memory of it, to safeguard against future outbreaks and
to manifest continual appreciation of the holiness of any
service of God.&mdash;Ezek. 43:7-9; 44:6-14.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Times for Offerings.</hi>&mdash;The times of certain offerings, as
on the sabbaths and new moons, type that the Jews and the
world might not effectively consecrate themselves until
the Millennial Age&mdash;God's seventh Day and the time of
the New Covenant. (Ezek. 44:24; 45:17.) The sacrifices
by the prince for all the people on the first month, first
day, type the universal consecrations during the first 1,000-year
Day of blessing for mankind, when all consciences
will be cleansed by the application of Christ's merit.
Those on the Seventh day type the same consecration during
the Millennium regarded as God's great seventh Sabbatical
<pb n='588'/><anchor id='Pg588'/>
thousand year Day, when sinners and the simple
minded will be cleansed from sin and set right. (Ezek.
45:20.) On the fourteenth day the celebration of the passover
memorial, and the seven-day feast thereafter, picture
the memorial of the Lamb of God and the feast of thankfulness
and consecration for the fulness of the New Covenant
forever (Ezek. 45:21-24); that on the fifteenth of the
seventh month, and for seven days, type the application of
Christ's merit through the Sin Offering and the thankfulness
and consecration of the people in the Spirit, eternally
thereafter. (Ezek. 45:25.) The sacrifices and worship
of prince and people at the east gate, on the sabbaths
and the new moons, figure the consecrations and reconsecrations
of Ancient Worthies and people throughout the
1,000-year Day of Restitution.&mdash;Ezek. 46:1-11.
</p>

<p>
At any time the Ancient Worthies representing the
people also may, of their own free will express their thankfulness
and celebrate the fulfilment of their consecration
vows, signifying this as their continuing state of mind.
(Ezek. 46:12). The daily burnt and meat offering for the
nation, morning and evening, signify the continued thankful
consecrating of all classes on all planes of being in
memory of and through, <q>the Lamb of God which taketh
away the sin of the world.</q> (Ezek. 46:13-15). Throughout
the Millennial Age this Little Flock will necessarily be in
contact with defiling and death-dealing error in some, with
whom they are intimately connected, in process of restoration
to human perfection; by the close of the great
seventh Day, before the eighth Day the application of the
merit of the Sin Offering will have cleansed or destroyed,
all such cases and The Christ will no more have to be in
touch with such defilements. (Ezek. 44:25-27). Offerings
to cleanse the altar with blood type the memory that the
altar class&mdash;The Christ, Head and Body&mdash;were cleansed by
the blood, and that all offerings are sanctified by the
blood. (Ezek. 43:18-27). Salt cast upon the offerings
types the preserving power of the Word.&mdash;Ezek. 43:23-44.
</p>

<p>
Throughout the Millennium the world of mankind are
to regard the perfect human condition toward which they
are progressing, as their inalienable possession, <q>bought
by the blood.</q> No ruler, or other power, is to interfere
with this right, nor teach them otherwise. (Ezek. 46:13;
48:29.) The Hebrews, the original beneficiaries, are to
welcome the rest of mankind and treat them as of their
own number.&mdash;Ezek. 47:22-23.
</p>

<pb n='589'/><anchor id='Pg589'/>

<p>
They are to submit loyally to the rulership of The Christ,
Head and body, and to that of the Divinely appointed
earthly phase of government. (Ezek. 44:24; 45:6.) They
are to receive the instructions of the Christ.&mdash;Ezek. 44:23.
</p>

<p>
Through the Ancient Worthies, the rulers of the
earthly phase, the people are at heart to consecrate their
all, typed by offerings of tenths or multiple thereof. (Ezek.
45:13-25.) To The Christ they are to consecrate their
hearts' best endeavors, their firstfruits, and everything
which they dedicate by vow or consecration. (Ezek. 44:29-30.)
The Great Company they are to love, and to them
they must be loyal.&mdash;Deut. 14:27-29.
</p>

<p>
The people must be thoroughly cleansed in conscience.
(Ezek. 44:9). They are to put away all their former defilements
and abominations and are to worship and serve
God throughout the Times of Restitution and thereafter,
observing that holy period as a solemn feast to the Lord.
(Ezek. 43:6-7; 46:1-3, 9-10; 45:17.) They are to consecrate
themselves daily, with thankfulness, with repentance and
restitution for sin, and with vows fulfilled.&mdash;Ezek. 44:29-30;
45:1, 13-25; 46:19-24; Zech. 14:20-21.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Duties of Prince.</hi>&mdash;The duties of the ruling Ancient
Worthies will be: to remove violence and exploitation,
execute judgment and justice and take away all former
exactions imposed upon the people. (Ezek. 45:8-9). They
are to see that the commercial intercourse of the people
is on a just and equal basis for all. (Ezek. 45:10-12).
They will receive taxes or offerings from the people, with
special attention to the spiritual offerings symbolized by
the things offered. (Ezek. 45:13-16). The land they are
to keep holy, as they will their own condition of favored
perfection, symbolized by the land. (Ezek. 48:21-22).
Certain ones for special merit&mdash;such as any during the
Gospel Age who lived up to their consecrations as mere
believers, not being taught the things of the Spirit, and as
those through devoted loyalty making special progress
during the Millennium&mdash;they may cause to have the same
honored position as themselves, which will be permanent
if the recipients manifest the spirit of sonship, but lasting
only to the close of the 1,000 years to those failing to
show this spirit. (Ezek. 46:16-17). They will be privileged,
as favored participants in the application of the Sin
Offering merit, to go in and out of the outer court east
gate&mdash;as in the place of Christ&mdash;and there to feed upon
the meat in due season from Christ's bounty. (Ezek. 44:1-3).
In all holy things they are to be the leaders of the
people. (Ezek. 46:9-10). They are, during the entire Millennial
Age&mdash;God's sabbath&mdash;to make offerings (Ezek.
<pb n='590'/><anchor id='Pg590'/>
45:17-25) of thankfulness, praise and recognition of the ransom,
directly through the Christ with whom they shall be
in intimate relations.&mdash;Ezek. 46:1-12.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Duties and Privileges of Levites.</hi>&mdash;On account of Gospel
Age disloyalty the Great Company, while enjoying the
Spirit nature (Numb. 18:23-24), will occupy an inferior
place as servants&mdash;not priests&mdash;in the service of God.
(Ezek. 44:10-14). Their lower nature on the spirit plane
will be inalienable and unchangeable. (Ezek. 48:13-14).
Rather than serve in the Temple at all, they are to render
service at the various gates, for whatever functions
are typed at or by the gates. (Ezek. 44:11). Rather than
do the direct service of Jehovah, they will continue as in
the Gospel Age when they courted and served the desires
and lusts of the people&mdash;to serve directly and perpetually
the people rather than the direct interests of their God.
(Ezek. 44:11-12). They shall not come near to God nor
approach to an appreciation of the things of the Divine nature,
but they shall do whatever menial services there may
be given them by the Little Flock to do. (Ezek. 44:13-14.) It
will be their part to receive and make effective the consecrations
of the people, to cleanse them with the water of the
Word, and to administer the stripes and chastening, many
or few, tempered by the water of the Word, whereby the
people may thoroughly assimilate (eat) the significance of
their consecrations. They may possibly restore the literal
sacrifices of animals as object lessons (Z. '05-269).&mdash;Ezek.
40:35-43; 46:21-24.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Duties and Privileges of the Priests.</hi>&mdash;The Little Flock,
the Church, will enjoy the nature of God, who Himself, in
His nature, will be their inheritance and possession. (Ezek.
44:27-28, Numbers 18:20.) They will serve the Divine
purposes in direct and intimate contact with their Father,
Jehovah, and will continue to keep the charge of God's
holy doctrines and truths, as they faithfully kept it during
the Gospel Age. (Ezek. 40:46; 44:15-16; 45:4; 48:10-12.)
They will continue having charge of God's house, His
Church, His people. (40:44-45; 44:8.) They will be in
various grades of honor (houses), as <q>star differeth from
star in glory.</q> (Ezek. 45:4.) They alone will have the
privilege of entering the Divine Temple, or Christ class.
(Ezek. 44:15-16.) They will forever regard their blessed
condition most holy, most consecrated to Jehovah. (Ezek.
48:12.) They will keep the law of Divine Love in all its
manifestations and judge the people according to that
exalted standard (Ezek. 44:24, Deut. 17:8-13); teach all
mankind to know the pattern of true godliness in all its
particulars and to discern between holy and secular, good
<pb n='591'/><anchor id='Pg591'/>
and evil (Ezek. 43:10-12; 44:23); sanctify and bless humanity
according to the Oath-bound Abrahamic Covenant on
terms of willing obedience. (Ezek. 44:19, 30; 46:19-20.)
These priests will make union with and make fruitful the
various covenants and promises (wives) by God, avoiding
those not Divinely approved. (Ezek. 44:22; Lev. 21:7, 13-14.)
They will receive tithes of the Levites. (Numbers
18:25-32.) All dedicated things will belong to them&mdash;that
is, all covenants, vows and consecration of the people will
be made to the Christ. (Ezek. 44:29-30; Josh. 6:19; Lev.
27:20-34; Numbers 18:8-20.) Theirs will be the charge of
the altar&mdash;of applying the merit of Christ to the people
(Ezek. 40:44-46), and they alone shall make the offering
to God, declare the Divine forgiveness and approval of
the people and of their consecrations.&mdash;Ezek. 43:18-27;
44:15-16, 25-27; 45:18-25; 46:1-7, 11-24.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>The Life-Giving River.</hi>&mdash;The benefits of Divine Love
flowing to save and bless all the willing and obedient of
mankind are pictured in the Life-Giving River. From underneath
the threshold, the place of rulership, the Throne of
The Christ (Rev. 22:1), the water of the Word of Divine
Love flows forth. Under the favor of the Church (right of
Temple) the truth about the loving mercy through the
blood of Jesus Christ (altar) is for the restitution of all
in the earthly (south) phase of the Kingdom. (D. 650, 655;
Z. '05-269; Z. '99-196; Ezek. 47:1.) Through Christ, the
Gate, with all His loving favor (right) it flows toward
the Sun-rise. (Ezek. 47:2.) The same one&mdash;Pastor Russell&mdash;who
measured the race for the mark of the prize,
with the line of Divine Righteousness (love, <q>the fulfilling
of the law</q>), measured also the requirements for character
attainment of the Millennial Age. One who will have that
degree of love, which is duty love to God and man, even
though reaching the utmost fulness of the measure of
Divine Justice (1,000 cubits), will be as it were, only up
to the ankles in the stream. He who attains the fulness
of the Divine standard as to love for God, for His glorious
character, will be in the stream to his knees. He who
shall reach the fulness of love for the <q>least</q> brethren
of that Age will be up to the loins; but he who so acquires
the spirit of Divine Love, as to love all, including his
enemies, will have reached the utmost fulness of love.
(Ezek. 47:2-5.) Any that appreciate this, see the full
purpose of Divine Love. It is important&mdash;<q>Son of man,
hast thou seen this?</q> (Ezek. 47:6.) This is the love that
will insure the healing of the sin-sick, anarchistic world
lying in a deadness like the Dead Sea. (A. 318, D. 653,
Z. '99-196, Ezek. 47:7-8.) Whoever becomes immersed in
<pb n='592'/><anchor id='Pg592'/>
the fulness of Divine Love shall thereby gain life; and
for everyone everywhere, to whom the water comes,
there shall be life. (E. <hi rend='italic'>357</hi>, 335; C. 214; Ezek. 47:9.) In
connection with the gospel of the fulness of Divine Love
there shall be a multitude of fishers of men to spread
the net of the gospel of glad tidings of great joy for exceeding
many. (C. 215, Ezek. 47:10.) But the people who
are hopelessly polluted with worldliness (miry places)
and those impregnated beyond saving with miasmas of
iniquity (marshes) shall not be healed even when <q>brought
to an accurate knowledge of the truth.</q> (Ezek. 47:11.)
And the stream of the truth of Divine Love shall cause
many righteous ones to come up (Dan. 12:3) whose loving
teachings shall never be forgotten nor its character
fruitage ever pass away; for they shall bring forth continued
fruitage, because of the Divine Truth of perfect
love coming to them out of Zion, the glorified Church.
And the character fruitage shall forever be for spiritual
food (John 4:34) and the teachings (leaves) for the
healing of all the willing and obedient of the sin-sick
world of mankind.&mdash;Z. '05-269; Matt. 10:8; Mal. 4:2; Ezek.
47:12.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<quote rend='display'>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>Come all ye saints to Pisgah's mountain,</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Come view our Home beyond the tide:</l>
<l>Millennial Canaan is before us,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Soon we'll sing on the other side.</l>
<l>O there see the 'white Throne of glory,'</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And crowns which the saints then shall gain;</l>
<l>And all who shall love Christ's appearing,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Shall be blessed by His glorious reign.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Thence springs of life will e'er be flowing,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Robing the earth in living green.</l>
<l>Visions of beauty rise before us</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>When the King and the saints shall reign.</l>
<l>Soon our conflicts and toils will be ended;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>We'll be tried and tempted no more,</l>
<l>And mankind of all Ages and nations</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Shall be blessed in that triumphant hour.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Faith now beholds salvation's River,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Gliding from underneath the Throne,</l>
<l>Bearing its life to whomsoever</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Will return to his Father's Home.</l>
<l>They will walk 'mid the trees by the rivers,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>With the friends they have loved by their side;</l>
<l>They will sing the glad songs of salvation.</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And be ready to follow their Guide.</l>
<l>O! the prospect! it is so transporting,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Reapers, hasten the gath'ring, we pray;</l>
<l>We rejoice in the glory that's promised,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'><q rend='post'>And the dawn of Millennial Day.</q></l>
</lg>

</quote>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='593'/><anchor id='Pg593'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Advertisements</head>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head><q>Go Ye Also Into The Vineyard</q></head>

<p>
<q><hi rend='italic'>He that reapeth receiveth wages, and gathereth fruit.</hi></q>
<hi rend='italic'>John 4:36.</hi>
</p>

<p>
All interested in the subjects of this volume, and who
consider its presentations to be <q>meat in due season,</q>
will feel more or less constrained to become servants of
the truth, and to bear the <q>things new and old</q> to yet
others of the <q>Household of Faith.</q> Your measure of
zeal for such service will of course measure your activities
in its service, and determine how much of time,
influence, means, etc., you will devote to its spread. We
are glad to cooperate with all, that those who love
much may do much, and that those who love some may
do something, in the name of the great Shepherd and
in the interest of His sheep.
</p>

<p>
To this end we wish you to know that special provision
has been made whereby you may be a co-laborer
in this work, regardless of whether you have financial
means to invest or not. We have quite a variety of
excellent tracts, which we supply free and in large
quantities for judicious circulation. We also publish
twice a month a 16 page journal, The Watch Tower,
and desire that our list should bear your name, if you
are interested. If interested in this volume you will
undoubtedly be interested in the journal, which treats
similar themes, and we are prepared to supply you
with it upon your own terms&mdash;you may have it on credit
if it is not convenient to pay for it in advance, and if
never able to pay for it we will, upon application, cancel
the indebtedness. If you have no prospect of being able
to pay for it you will be welcome to it free as one of
the <q>Lord's poor,</q> on application, and upon renewal of
the same yearly. If you can afford to pay, the price
is $1 (4s.) a year.
</p>

<p>
We have various helps for Bible study, which we supply
to all who are on our Watch Tower list at extremely
low prices&mdash;these include various translations
of the Bible, Concordances, etc., and especially the
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Scripture Studies</hi>&mdash;<q><hi rend='smallcaps'>The Bible Keys.</hi></q>
</p>

<p>
Colporteuring And Loaning The <q>Studies.</q>
</p>

<p>
Some have numbers of friends to whom they take
pleasure in supplying the Studies <foreign rend='italic'>gratis</foreign>; others keep a
quantity at hand which they constantly loan out
amongst their friends, after the manner of a circulating
library; and still others enter the Colporteur work,
as being one of the most favorable opportunities to
them for serving the truth to others, traveling from
town to town introducing the <q>Bible Keys,</q> soliciting
orders and delivering the books. Our Society does all
in its power to facilitate these various methods of circulating
the truth, encouraging each to serve the cause
to the extent of his zeal and ability, according to his
own preference; assisting in the matter very materially
by supplying the books at remarkably low prices. See
page 2 of <hi rend='smallcaps'>The Watch Tower</hi> for wholesale rates to
subscribers, and if the Colporteur work appeals to you,
write for <q>Hints to Colporteurs.</q>
</p>

<p>
We shall be glad to hear from you, and to coöperate
with you, and we assure you that you will find a blessing
in every sacrifice you may make on behalf of the
truth. Very truly,  Your fellow-servants,
</p>

<p>
Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society,
</p>

<p>
Brooklyn, N. Y., U. S. A.
</p>

<p>
Branches:&mdash;London, W.; Elberfeld, Melbourne, Copenhagen,
Orebro, Christiana, Geneva, Yokohama.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='594'/><anchor id='Pg594'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head><q>Both the Houses of Israel</q></head>

<p>
Correspondencies Of The
Mosaic And Christian Dispensations.
</p>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{3.5cm} p{3.5cm}'; tblcolumns: 'lw(30) lw(30)'">
<row><cell>Israel After the Flesh</cell><cell>Israel After the Spirit</cell></row>
<row><cell>A House of Servants. 1 Cor. 10:18; Rom. 9:7, 8; 4:16; Heb. 3:5.</cell>
  <cell>A House of Sons. Gal. 4:5, 6, 7, 30, 31; 6:15,
16; John 1:12; Rom. 8:15.</cell></row>
<row><cell>Founded in Jacob's Twelve Sons. 1 Kings 18:31.</cell>
  <cell>Founded in Jesus' Twelve Apostles. Rev. 21:14.</cell></row>
<row><cell>A Kingdom and Priesthood, A Holy Nation. Exod. 19:6.</cell>
  <cell>A Royal Priesthood, A Holy Nation. 1 Pet. 2:5, 9.</cell></row>
<row><cell>Aaron, Fleshly High-Priest. Heb. 9:7.</cell>
  <cell>Jesus, The Spiritual High-Priest. Heb. 9:11.</cell></row>
<row><cell>Circumcision of the Flesh. Rom. 2:28, 29.</cell>
  <cell>Circumcision of the Heart. Rom. 2:28, 29.</cell></row>
<row><cell>Law of Sin and Death. Rom. 8:2.</cell>
  <cell>Law of the Spirit of Life in Christ Jesus. Rom 8:2.</cell></row>
<row><cell>Earthly Promises. Gen. 13:14-17; Acts 7:2-5.</cell>
  <cell><q>Better Promises</q>. Heb. 9:23; 11:40.</cell></row>
<row><cell>In Captivity To Literal Babylon. 2 Chron. 36:20.</cell>
  <cell>In Captivity To Mystic Babylon. Rev. 17:5; 18:4.</cell></row>
<row><cell>Length of Favor 1845 Years, From Jacob's Death to Israel's
Rejection and the Beginning of Spiritual Israel, A. D. 33.</cell>
  <cell>Length of Favor 1845 Years, From Jesus' Death to the Beginning of
Christ's Reign and the Rejection of Babylon, A. D. 1878.</cell></row>
<row><cell>The Nominal System Cast Off, A. D. 33. Matt. 23:38.</cell>
  <cell>The Nominal System Spewed Out, A. D. 1878. Rev. 3:16.</cell></row>
<row><cell>40 Years in Falling, to A. D. 73.</cell>
  <cell>40 Years in Falling, to A. D. 1918.</cell></row>
<row><cell>The end of the age. A harvest of 40 years. Luke 10:9, 16.</cell>
  <cell>The end of the age. A harvest of 40 years, Matt. 13:24-30, 36-43.</cell></row>
<row><cell>Our Lord's Presence and the Sacrificial Character of His Death, the
Stumbling-Stone.</cell>
  <cell>Our Lord's Presence and the Sacrificial Character of His Death, the
Stumbling-Stone.</cell></row>
</table>

</div>

<pb n='595'/><anchor id='Pg595'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Watch Tower And Herald Of Christ's Presence</head>

<p>
This journal, founded by the author of Scripture
Studies, should regularly visit all who have the slightest
interest in the topics discussed in this and the other
volumes of the <hi rend='italic'>Scripture Studies</hi> series. It is issued
twice a month, 16 pages, at one dollar (4s.) a year in
advance.
</p>

<p>
That <emph>none</emph> of the interested may be without it, the
arrangement is that those who need may have it on
credit on application, while those too poor to pay may
receive it regularly <emph>free</emph> by stating the facts and making
request each December. All new tracts are sent to
<hi rend='smallcaps'>The Watch Tower</hi> list which it is desired shall represent
all interested in Present Truth, the <q>Harvest</q> message.
</p>

<p>
Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society,
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Brooklyn, N. Y., U. S. A.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Branches:&mdash;London, W.; Elberfeld, Melbourne, Copenhagen,
Orebro, Christiana, Geneva, Yokohama.
</p>

<p>
This Society never solicits donations, but it uses
voluntary contributions as wisely and economically as
possible in the propagation of Christian knowledge
along the lines presented in <hi rend='italic'>Scripture Studies</hi>. It
yearly circulates tons of tracts and papers free, through
the mails and through voluntary agents.
</p>

<p>
It justifies that portion of its name which relates to
the Bible&mdash;(not by publishing Bibles, nor by circulating
them gratuitously, but)&mdash;by supplying Bibles and Bible-study
helps at wholesale prices; and often below the
usual wholesale rates. We mention a few of these on
succeeding pages, of course ranking <hi rend='italic'>Scripture Studies</hi>
as the most important helps or <q>Bible Keys,</q> and <hi rend='smallcaps'>The
Watch Tower</hi>, semi-monthly, their efficient supplement.
</p>

<p>
Readers who desire to coöperate in the circulation of
<hi rend='italic'>Scripture Studies</hi> will be supplied at cost prices, and
can have tracts ad libitum. Write us respecting this!
</p>

<p>
The Bible Students Monthly
</p>

<p>
Treating Live Topics, Supplied Free.
</p>

<p>
Samples will be sent free to anyone requesting them:
and quantities for free circulation will be supplied free
to all subscribers to <hi rend='smallcaps'>The Watch Tower</hi>, they being
considered working members of the Society, whether
they specially contribute to its funds or not. Send for
free samples.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='596'/><anchor id='Pg596'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>What Say The Scriptures About Hell?</head>

<p>
An Examination Of Every Text Of Scripture In
Which The Word <q>Hell</q> Is Found
</p>

<p>
A Correct understanding of the subject of this
booklet is almost a necessity to Christian steadfastness.
For centuries it has been the teaching
of <q>orthodoxy,</q> of all shades, that God, before creating
man, had created a great abyss of fire and terrors,
capable of containing all the billions of the human family
which He purposed to bring into being; that this abyss
He had named <q>hell;</q> and that all of the promises
and threatenings of the Bible were designed to deter as
many as possible (a <q>little flock</q>) from such wrongdoing
as would make this awful place their perpetual
home.
</p>

<p>
While glad to see superstitions fall, and truer ideas
of the great, and wise, and just, and loving Creator prevail,
we are alarmed to notice that the tendency with
all who abandon this long revered doctrine is toward
doubt, scepticism, infidelity. Why should this be the
case, when the mind is merely being delivered from an
error?&mdash;do you ask? Because Christian people have so
long been taught that the foundation for this awful
blasphemy against God's character and government is
deeplaid and firmly fixed in the Word of God&mdash;the
Bible&mdash;and consequently, to whatever degree their belief
in <q>hell</q> is shaken, to that extent their faith in the
Bible, as the revelation of the true God, is shaken
also;&mdash;so that those who have dropped their belief in
a <q>hell,</q> of some kind of endless torment, are often
open infidels, and scoffers at God's Word.
</p>

<p>
Guided by the Lord's providence to a realization that
the Bible has been slandered, as well as its Divine
Author, and that, rightly understood, it teaches nothing
on this subject derogatory to God's character nor
to an intelligent reason, we have attempted in this
booklet to lay bare the Scripture teaching on this subject
that thereby faith in God and His Word may be
reëstablished, on a better, a reasonable foundation.
Indeed, it is our opinion that whoever shall hereby find
that his false view rested upon human misconceptions
and misinterpretations will, at the same time, learn
to trust hereafter less to his own and other men's
imaginings, and, by faith, to grasp more firmly the
Word of God, which is able to make wise unto salvation;
and on this mission, under God's providence, it
is sent forth.
</p>

<p>
Price 10 Cents (5d.) Per Copy.&mdash;88 Pages.
</p>

<p>
Special wholesale rates to colporteurs and those who
desire to aid in circulating these booklets widely.
</p>

<p>
Address
</p>

<p>
Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Brooklyn, N. Y., U. S. A.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Branches:&mdash;London, W.; Elberfeld, Melbourne, Copenhagen,
Orebro, Christiana, Geneva, Yokohama.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='597'/><anchor id='Pg597'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>What Say The Scriptures About Spiritism?</head>

<p>
Proofs That It Is Demonism.
</p>

<p>
Also
</p>

<p>
<q>The Spirits In Prison</q> And Why Are
They There!
</p>

<p>
The necessity for this little brochure lies in
the fact that Spiritism is showing an increased
activity of late, and meeting with considerable
success in entrapping Christians who are feeling
dissatisfied with their present attainments
and craving spiritual food and better foundation
for faith.
</p>

<p>
The aim is to show the unscripturalness of
Spiritism, and to point those who hunger and
thirst for truth in the direction of God's
Word&mdash;the counsel of the Most High. <q>Thou
shalt guide me with Thy counsel, and afterward
receive me to glory.</q>&mdash;Psa. 73:24.
</p>

<p>
119 pages; in paper covers, 10 cents (5d.)
</p>

<p>
Address
</p>

<p>
Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society,
</p>

<p>
Brooklyn, N. Y., U. S. A.
</p>

<p>
Branches:&mdash;London, W.; Elberfeld, Melbourne, Copenhagen,
Orebro, Christiana, Geneva, Yokohama.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='598'/><anchor id='Pg598'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Miscellaneous Advertisements</head>

<p>Old MS. Translations, Concordances, Etc.
Recommended as Aids to Bible Study</p>

<p>
The Emphatic Diaglott
</p>

<p>
This Greek New Testament, with interlinear word-for-word
rendering, and a free reading emphasized translation
alongside, is based upon the famous Vatican MS.
No. 1209. With each copy sold, we give one year's
subscription to <hi rend='smallcaps'>The Watch Tower</hi>&mdash;if a New subscription.
If you already take <hi rend='smallcaps'>The Watch Tower</hi>, your
purchase of the <hi rend='smallcaps'>Diaglott</hi> entitles you to send <hi rend='smallcaps'>The
Tower</hi> to a friend who may want it, but this New
Subscription must accompany the order, as we cannot
apply subscriptions on back orders.
</p>

<p>
Leather bound, divinity circuit, gilt edges, good Bible
paper. Price $3.25 (or $2.50 without <hi rend='sans'>Watch Tower</hi>).
</p>

<p>
Young's Analytical Concordance
</p>

<p>
In English, Hebrew and Greek, by Prof. Young (Presbyterian.)
1240 pages, cloth binding, price, $6.00 postpaid.
As we are not permitted to reduce the publisher's
price, we will, however, send <hi rend='smallcaps'>Free</hi> with each order any
two volumes of Studies In the Scriptures.
</p>

<p>
Smith's Bible Dictionary
</p>

<p>
Interesting and valuable, 1020 pp. Cloth, $1.30 postpaid.
</p>

<p>
Berean Bible Helps (<hi rend='smallcaps'>Bound Separate</hi>)
</p>

<p>
These are the same as in the latest <q>I. B. S. A.</q> Bibles
described on another page. Full leather, divinity circuit,
$1.15 postpaid. Karatol, red edges, 60c. postpaid.
Also carried in German (leather and cloth), prices same
as English.
</p>

<p>
International Bible Students Association
</p>
<p>
Brooklyn, N. Y.
</p>

<p>
I. B. S. A. Berean Bibles
</p>

<p>
These are Common Version Bibles
but their distinguishing feature
consists of
</p>

<p>
Over 500 Pages Of
Special Berean Helps
</p>

<p>
in Four Sections as follows:
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Part I. Bible Teachers' Manual</hi>
</p>

<p>
Biblical Comments from Genesis
to Revelation explaining the
text and referring to the <hi rend='smallcaps'>STUDIES
IN THE SCRIPTURES</hi> and other
publications where the subject
is more fully treated.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Part II. Instructors' Guide Texts</hi>
</p>

<p>
Texts relating to various important
subjects topically arranged
for ready reference.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Part III. Berean Topical Index</hi>
</p>

<p>
An alphabetical arrangement of
over 800 subjects of peculiar
interest, with reference to page
where treated in our publications.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='sans'>Part IV. Spurious Passages Noted</hi>
</p>

<p>
A full list of spurious passages not
found in the oldest Greek MSS.
</p>

<p>
In Addition To The Above
</p>

<p>
the Bagster Concordance, Maps
and Students Helps are incorporated
in Nos. 1919, 1939 and 1959.
</p>

<p>
Descriptions and Prices
</p>

<p>
No, 1918. Size 4-1/4 x 6-1/4 India Paper,
Minion type, French Seal, divinity
circuit, red under gold edges,
Berean Helps, colored maps, marginal
reference.  $2.00 postpaid.
</p>

<p>
No. 1919. Same as No. 1918, with
Bagster Concordance, Maps, etc.,
added. $2.25 postpaid.
</p>

<p>
No. 1928. Same as No. 1918, except
bound in Genuine Morocco,
leather-lined. $2.85 postpaid.
</p>

<p>
Ionic Type,  Self-Pronouncing.
</p>

<p>
No. 1939. Size 5-1/2 x 7-1/2 India Paper,
Ionic type, French Seal, divinity circuit,
red under gold edges, Berean
Helps, also Bagster Concordance, Maps,
etc. Marginal reference. $3.60 postpaid.
</p>

<p>
No. 1959. Same as No. 1939, except bound
in genuine Morocco, calf-lined. $3.95 postpaid.
</p>

<p>
Patent Index, 25c Extra; Registry 10c.
</p>

<p>
Publishers lists of other Bibles sent on request.
</p>

<p>
International Bible Students Assn., Brooklyn, N. Y.
</p>

<p>
Volume I. <q>Studies in the Scriptures</q> Series
</p>

<p>
Things You Ought To Know As
</p>

<p>
Christian Bible Students
</p>

<p>
The Satisfactory Proofs That
</p>

<p>
The Bible is a Divine Revelation&mdash;reasonable and
trustworthy, revealing a systematic Plan full of Justice,
Wisdom and Love. <q>The Key of Knowledge</q> of
the Scriptures, long lost is found, and gives God's
faithful people access to the <q>Hidden Mystery.</q>&mdash;Luke
11:52, Col. 1:26.
</p>

<p>
The Lord Jesus and His faithful are to be not only
priests but kings, and will reign over the earth.
</p>

<p>
This Kingdom is to come at Christ's Second Advent.
</p>

<p>
God's Plan is to select and save the Church in the
Gospel Age, and to use this Church in blessing the
world in the Millennium. A <q>ransom for all</q> implies
an <emph>opportunity</emph> to all for restitution. The Day of
Judgment is 1,000 years long&mdash;the world's trial day.
</p>

<p>
<q>The narrow way</q> of self-sacrifice will cease with
this Age.
</p>

<p>
<q>The highway</q> of righteousness will be open to all
the redeemed race in the Millennium.&mdash;Isa. 35:8, 9.
</p>

<p>
<q>The kingdoms of this world</q> are but for an ordained
period and must give place to the <q>Kingdom of
Heaven.</q>
</p>

<p>
God has permitted evil for six thousand years for a
wise purpose.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>These subjects and many others of deep interest to
all of God's people are discussed fully and in
language easy of comprehension in</hi>
</p>

<p>
<q>The Divine Plan of the Ages</q>
</p>

<p>
(In English, German, Swedish, Dano-Norwegian,
Italian, French, Greek, Hungarian, Spanish, Polish,
Hollandish, Finnish, Arabic, Slovak, Roumanian,
Lettish, Ukrainian, Chinese, Japanese and Korean;
also Braille, for the blind).
</p>

<p>
416 Pages&mdash;Cloth Bound. 50 Cents, Postpaid or
Delivered by Colporteurs. Magazine Edition
(Eng. and Ger.) 10 Cents Postpaid.
</p>

<p>
International Bible Students Association
</p>

<p>
Brooklyn, N. Y.
</p>

<p>
Volume II. <q>Studies in the Scriptures</q> Series
</p>

<p>
A Remarkable Book
</p>

<p>
Skeptics Should Read it . . .
</p>

<p>
Christians Should Study it.
</p>

<p>
Things You Want To Know As
</p>

<p>
Christian Bible Students
</p>

<p>
There Are Evidences That
</p>

<lg>
<l>Six thousand Years from Adam ended in <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi> 1872.</l>
<l>The Date of our Lord's Birth was October <hi rend='smallcaps'>B. C.</hi> 2.</l>
<l>The Date of Annunciation to Mary, Dec 25th, <hi rend='smallcaps'>B. C.</hi> 3.</l>
<l>The Date of our Lord's Baptism was October <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi> 29.</l>
<l>The Date of our Lord's Crucifixion, April <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi> 33.</l>
<l>The <q>Seventy Weeks</q> of Israel's favor ended <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi> 36.</l>
<l>The Jewish Age <q>Harvest</q> was 40 years <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi> 30 to 70.</l>
<l>The Christian Age <q>Harvest</q> is its parallel.</l>
<l>The Jewish Jubilees were typical of the <q>Times of
Restitution of all Things.</q>&mdash;Acts 3:19-21.</l>
<l>The Typical Jubilees mark the Date of their Antitype.</l>
<l>The <q>Times of the Gentiles</q> ended <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. D.</hi> 1914.</l>
<l>The Jewish Age, in its Lengths, its Ceremonies, etc.,</l>
<l>Typified the Realities of the Christian Age and its Length.</l>
<l>Elias or <q>Elijah the prophet</q> was a Type.&mdash;How fulfilled.</l>
<l>The Antichrist has come!&mdash;What? When? Where?</l>
</lg>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>These subjects and many others deeply interesting
to <q>the Household of Faith,</q> and <q>Meat in due
season</q> to all who love and study God's Word, can
be had in</hi>
</p>

<p>
<q>The Time Is At Hand</q>
</p>

<p>
(In English, German, Swedish, Finnish and
Dano-Norwegian.)
</p>

<p>
482 Pages&mdash;Cloth Bound, 50 Cents, Postpaid or
Delivered by Colporteurs
</p>

<p>
International Bible Students Association
</p>

<p>
Brooklyn, N. Y.
</p>

<p>
Volume III. <q>Studies in the Scriptures</q> Series
</p>

<p>
Do You Know That
</p>

<p>
We are now living in <q>the Time of the End</q> of this
Gospel Age?
</p>

<p>
Our Epoch is <q>the Day of God's Preparation</q> for the
Millennial Age?
</p>

<p>
The <q>Days of Waiting</q> are ended and the <q>Cleansing
of the Sanctuary</q>&mdash;the Church&mdash;the separating of
its Wheat and Tares, is now in progress?
</p>

<p>
This the reason for the beginning of the Return of
Divine Favor to Fleshly Israel&mdash;blinded for centuries&mdash;to
permit the gathering of an Elect Class from
among the Gentiles?
</p>

<p>
This favor now taking shape is known as Zionism?
</p>

<p>
Immanuel's Kingdom is now being established?
</p>

<p>
The Great Pyramid in Egypt is a Witness to all these
events of the past and present&mdash;testifying in symbols?
The Pyramid's Downward Passage under <q>A Draconis</q>
symbolizes the course of Sin? Its First Ascending
Passage symbolizes the Jewish Age? Its Grand Gallery
symbolizes the Gospel Age? Its Upper Step symbolizes
the approaching period of tribulation and anarchy,
<q>Judgments,</q> upon Christendom? Its King's Chamber
the Divine Nature, etc., of the Overcoming Church&mdash;the
Christ, Head and Body? Its Ante-Chamber the
Correction in Righteousness of the <q>Great Company</q>
etc.? Its Queen's Chamber symbolizes those of Israel
and the world who eventually attain Restitution?
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>All these interesting topics with ten Pyramid illustrations
can be had in</hi>
</p>

<p>
<q>Thy Kingdom Come</q>
</p>

<p>
(English, German, Swedish, Finnish, Dano-Norwegian)
</p>

<p>
482 Pages&mdash;Cloth Bound, 50 Cents, Postpaid or
Delivered by Colporteurs
</p>

<p>
International Bible Students Association
</p>

<p>
Brooklyn, N. Y.
</p>

<p>
Volume IV. <q>Studies in the Scriptures</q> Series
</p>

<p>
<q>None Of The Wicked Will
Understand</q>
</p>

<p>
But <q>The Wise Shall Understand</q> That
</p>

<p>
This Gospel Age is closing with a <q>Day of Vengeance.</q>
It will affect the whole world, specially Christendom.
All Political, Social, Financial and Religious systems
will fail.
</p>

<p>
These Judgments, beginning with the House of God,
must extend to all.
</p>

<p>
Our day is noted by the Prophets as <q>the Day of
Jehovah.</q>
</p>

<p>
It is symbolically styled <q>a Dark Day,</q> a <q>Day of
clouds,</q> etc.
</p>

<p>
Its trouble is symbolically likened to a Hurricane, to
a Flood, to a Fire, etc., these strong figures being used
to give an appreciation, yet to hide the real nature, of
that <q>Time of Trouble such as Never Has been since
there was a Nation.</q>&mdash;Dan. 13:1.
</p>

<p>
Preparations for this symbolic <q>Fire</q> and <q>Tempest</q>
are now well under way and shortly will rage furiously
throughout the world.
</p>

<p>
It will be a contest between Masses and Classes.
</p>

<p>
Many see it upon us and trust to various schemes to
avert it.
</p>

<p>
But all worldly Schemes and Panaceas will fail utterly.
God's Kingdom, the only hope for Church and world,
is sure.
</p>

<p>
Man's extremity will prove to be God's opportunity&mdash;in
the establishment of God's Kingdom&mdash;Christ's Millennial
Kingdom which will establish righteousness
by force.&mdash;Rev. 2:26, 27; Dan. 2:34, 35, 44, 45.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>All these subjects are simply yet forcefully treated,
and Matthew 24th Chapter elucidated, in</hi>
</p>

<p>
<q>The Battle Of Armageddon</q>
</p>

<p>
(In English, German, Swedish, Finnish and
Dano-Norwegian.)
</p>

<p>
720 Pages&mdash;Cloth Bound, 60 Cents. Postpaid or
Delivered by Colporteurs
</p>

<p>
International Bible Students Association
</p>

<p>
Brooklyn, N. Y.
</p>

<p>
Volume V. <q>Studies in the Scriptures</q> Series
</p>

<p>
The At-One-Ment Is Believed In By All
</p>

<p>
Christian Bible Students
</p>

<p>
Nevertheless, but few could explain its philosophy
</p>

<p>
All Should Know
</p>

<p>
About the great Mediator of the At-one-ment, our
Lord Jesus Christ.
</p>

<p>
Respecting the necessity for the At-one-ment
</p>

<p>
And the necessity that the <q>Only Begotten</q> must be
<q>made flesh,</q> and then die, and then rise from the
dead in order to effect the At-one-ment.
</p>

<p>
Respecting the office and work of the Holy Spirit in
connection with the At-one-ment.
</p>

<p>
And the important part of the At-one-ment not yet
finished&mdash;which awaits the Second Coming of our
Lord in His Kingdom glory.
</p>

<p>
Respecting the central doctrine of At-one-ment,
namely, the <emph>Ransom</emph>&mdash;what is was&mdash;why it was and is
the center or <q>hub</q> around which and into which all
Bible doctrines fit.
</p>

<p>
How this doctrine is the test of the truth or falsity of
all doctrines; so that once understood clearly it is a
guard against error in every form.
</p>

<p>
Respecting man, the subject of the great At-one-ment,
his nature; his sin; his penalty; his deliverance
through Christ; his future possibilities through acceptance
of the At-one-ment.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>All these interesting and very important themes
are lucidly discussed in simple language, and corroborated
by fourteen hundred Scripture citations, in</hi>
</p>

<p>
<q>The At-One-Ment Between God And Man</q>
</p>

<p>
(In English, German, Swedish, Finnish and
Dano-Norwegian.)
</p>

<p>
600 Pages&mdash;Cloth Bound 60 Cents, Postpaid or
Delivered by Colporteurs.
</p>

<p>
International Bible Students Association
</p>

<p>
Brooklyn, N. Y.
</p>

<p>
Volume VI. <q>Studies in the Scriptures</q> Series
</p>

<p>
Things You Ought To Know As
</p>

<p>
Christian Bible Students
</p>

<p>
The Creative Week of Genesis&mdash;its actual length&mdash;scientifically
corroborated.
</p>

<p>
The true Church of Christ, begotten of the Spirit as
the New Creation; the steps of Grace Divine&mdash;Justification,
Sanctification, and Deliverance in the First
Resurrection.
</p>

<p>
The duties and obligations of the New Creation&mdash;toward
the Lord, toward each other, toward earthly
friends and neighbors, toward parents, children,
husbands, wives, etc.
</p>

<p>
The Lord's Memorial Supper or Sacrament: what it is
and what it is not should be clearly discerned by all
of God's people.
</p>

<p>
True Baptism&mdash;what it is. The many mistakes of
nearly all denominations are pointed out in kindly
spirit, and then the true Baptism is set forth in convincing
style&mdash;indisputable, incontrovertible.
</p>

<p>
The foes and besetments of the New Creation, and
the Scriptural method of overcoming them; also the
present and the future inheritance of the saints.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>These subjects and many others deeply interesting
to all who love and study the Bible
are fully treated in</hi>
</p>

<p>
The New Creation
</p>

<p>
(English, German, Swedish, Dano-Norwegian
and Finnish)
</p>

<p>
816 Pages&mdash;Cloth Bound, 60 Cents, Postpaid or
Delivered by Colporteurs
</p>

<p>
International Bible Students Association
</p>

<p>
Brooklyn, N.Y.
</p>

</div>

</div>

</body>
<back rend="page-break-before: right">
  <div id="footnotes">
    <index index="toc" />
    <index index="pdf" />
    <head>Footnotes</head>
    <divGen type="footnotes"/>
  </div>
  <div rend="page-break-before: right">
    <divGen type="pgfooter" />
  </div>
</back>
</text>
</TEI.2>
